=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, and mythology. Musical Bodies is the first major exhibition to explore the relationship between musical instruments and the body by bringing together some 130 instruments, paintings, sculptures, drawings, and more to illuminate how we express who we are, what we value, and what we believe. With works from The Met collection and institutions and collectors around the world, the exhibition explores 4,000 years of art and music history, from ancient Egyptian rattles and musical masterpieces by Titian and Degas to instrument-inspired apparel and one of Prince’s most notable guitars. Musical Bodies will resonate with visitors of all ages, whether you are a musician, a devoted listener, or simply curious about human expression. The exhibition is made possible by Barbara Tober, the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary C. and James W. Fosburgh Publications Fund.
  →  Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection.

RAW: The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other collecting areas. Pairings between fashions and artworks will present a spectrum of connections and experiences: from the formal to the conceptual, the aesthetic to the political, the individual to the universal, the illustrative to the symbolic, and the playful to the profound. These pairings are organized into a series of thematic body types that reflect their pervasiveness and endurance through time and cultures. Costume Art is the inaugural exhibition in the new, nearly 12,000-square-foot galleries adjacent to the Great Hall. This space will display The Costume Institute’s annual spring show and, at times, shows from the Museum’s other curatorial departments, including those that explore the intersection of fashion and art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here
  →  Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries.

RAW: In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the great sculptors of the 20th century in dialogue with the ancient civilization that strongly influenced his art and his practice. Throughout his career, Giacometti showed a particular fascination for the art of ancient Egypt. The Egyptian statues he saw in Italy as a young artist made a lasting impression on his visual repertoire, and after he moved to Paris, he regularly visited the Egyptian galleries of the Louvre. His formal dialogue with Egypt can be seen in sketches of walking figures in profile, which were later realized in such works as Walking Woman (I) (1932). At The Met, this elegant figure will be installed in the entrance hall of the Temple of Dendur. The Temple of Dendur was completed in 10 BCE as a commission by Caesar Augustus shortly after he became emperor of Rome. Gifted from Egypt to the United States in 1965, it has been one of the most beloved works of art at The Met since it opened to the public in 1978. In ancient Egypt, the terrace before the temple functioned as an open meeting place between the deity and larger crowds. At The Met, Giacometti's figures will stand alone or in groups on the temple platform—a presentation that echoes the artist's own compositions of figures as well as the life around the temple. The exhibition is made possible by the Kate W. Cassidy Foundation.
  →  Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple.

RAW: The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated travel, rapid technological change, and shifting geopolitics hastened artistic exchange between distant regions and different cultures. Beginning with Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt in 1798 and culminating in the paintings of Ottoman renaissance man Osman Hamdi Bey, this exhibition tells the story of how Islamic works of art made their way to European dealers, collectors, international expositions, and museums, introducing a new visual language to artists, architects, and designers. Deep admiration for the sophisticated techniques and visual language of Islamic art led Owen Jones and other influential figures to transform architecture and design in Europe and America. Artists such as Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Eugène Delacroix, and Jean-Léon Gérôme visited lands and people across the Mediterranean or imagined them from afar. They sometimes depicted what they saw and at other times conjured distant places through memory and imagination, often using Islamic objects to stage their paintings. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy is the first exhibition at The Met to explore Orientalism as its central focus, presenting not only easel paintings but also drawings, photographs, illustrated books, architecture, arms and armor, textiles, garments, glassware, ceramics, and metalwork. Highlighting The Met collection, it features approximately 180 objects from 12 Met departments along with rarely seen loans from the U.S. and abroad. Displayed across four galleries that straddle the departments of European Paintings and Islamic Art, the presentation invites visitors to approach the exhibit
  →  Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa.

RAW: Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Renaissance as “almost eternal,” today Della Robbia sculptures are often as vibrantly luminous as when they emerged from the kiln five hundred years ago. The Met has the largest, most significant collection of Della Robbia glazed terracottas in America. Most have remained in storage for decades. For the first time, Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met features in a single gallery 12 of the Museum’s masterworks by three generations of the Della Robbia family. Rescued from storage, revived through conservation, and reattributed through fresh research, these sculptures are shown with two important loans from a private collector. Another two works are exciting sculptures by Giovanni della Robbia from the Dick Wolf Collection that complement existing works in the Museum’s collection—one is a promised gift and the other, the Mystic Mandorla lunette, recently was gifted to the Museum. Together, the exhibited sculptures span monumental reliefs composed of many interlocking pieces to small statuettes, signaling the scope of the Della Robbias’ art. Collaboration within the Della Robbia workshop fostered innovation. Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met itself results from a collaborative exchange among curators, conservators, and digital specialists. Highlights include the exhibition’s centerpiece featuring 33 newly conserved interlocking pieces of a 10-foot-tall altarpiece that has been off view for 70 years. These are shown alongside a large, animated virtual reconstruction that uses 3D-scanning technology to suggest how the entire altar originally was assembled. Rediscovering Della
  →  Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop.

RAW: This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-term presidency. Rarely seen prints reveal the transatlantic circulation of news about the struggle for independence during a fractious political period. This window into the era’s print culture highlights the global dimensions of the rebellion, the contested ideas about liberty that shaped it, and its consequential outcomes. Also on view are American and European works of art that depict a range of significant individuals. These include the Wampanoag chief Metacomet, whose battles with early colonists laid the groundwork for revolution; the African American poet Phillis Wheatley, who raised her voice against an expansive tyranny in her call for emancipation; patriots and presidents such as Paul Revere and George Washington; the Mohawk leader Thayendanegea, who allied with the British in an effort to retain Indigenous sovereignty; and iconic contributors to the Declaration of Independence John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Together, these artworks acknowledge multiple complex and intertwined histories that continue to resonate in the United States and beyond, some two and half centuries later. This special installation is made possible by Kimba Wood and Frank Richardson.
  →  Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval.

RAW: This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outside of natural ecosystems but are profoundly interdependent with the rest of the natural world. Dating from around 1525 to 1775, these paintings trace a shift in European representations of nature from expressions of embeddedness toward assertions of dominance, showing how our conceptions of nature are themselves not “natural” but instead are culturally constructed. The artists’ depictions shape viewers’ experiences of the environments they portray. Overlapping themes include ancient myths that personify natural forces; the relationship between art and science through direct observation of nature; and idealizations of agricultural labor that upheld class, gender, and colonial power structures. As physical objects, paintings alter natural resources like flax, wood, and rare minerals; in turn, these materials continue to have lives of their own. This special installation is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation.
  →  Painting through landscape, environment and material relations.

RAW: Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotation, shows treasured Korean traditions. By presenting them in ways that give us a fuller picture into each object’s unique form, Flip Sides provides insight into the construction and function of works in metal, wood, ceramic, textiles, and lacquer. A Buddhist sculpture that held offerings inside, a porcelain jar of striking openwork that conceals an inner chamber, a bronze mirror with a delicately incised image, and a king’s lacquer letter box with linings featuring impressive calligraphy are among the featured objects in Flip Sides. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: March 16–October 18, 2026 Rotation 2: October 31, 2026–May 31, 2027 The exhibition is made possible by The Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art.
  →  Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects.

RAW: From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s extensive and rich history of ceramic art through approximately 350 extraordinary works presented in themes that offer fresh perspectives on the diverse forms and functions, from everyday tableware to vessels created for tea masters and elite households to modern sculptural compositions. Japan’s earliest pottery dates back more than 12,000 years, when makers shaped and fired clay vessels for cooking and storage—objects that bear the traces of these early potters’ hands. Expertise transmitted from China and Korea in medieval times facilitated the development of new Japanese techniques and wares. Over time, the reverence for prized ceramics led to finding beauty even through damage. Japanese artisans developed kintsugi, the art of repairing broken ceramics with gold lacquer, restoring the damaged object’s function while making it even more precious and valuable. Japanese cuisine and dining aesthetics inspired vessels designed to harmonize with the color and texture of food. Many porcelains from the Edo period (1615–1868) are embellished with motifs drawn from the natural world or symbols of happiness, longevity, and good fortune. Featuring refined ceramics and other artworks from the Museum’s Harry G. C. Packard Collection, this exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of this landmark acquisition that established the foundation of The Met’s Japanese art holdings. By placing ceramics in dialogue with related art forms—including lacquers, textiles, paintings, and woodblock prints—the display inspires curiosity about the multiverse of Japanese ceramics and its broader cultural
  →  Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form.

RAW: Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302). The intimate and enchanting gallery with exposed brick walls and arched portals was unveiled in the year 2000 after a renovation that reclaimed the space beneath the Museum’s Grand Staircase. In this transhistorical presentation, the Byzantine Crypt’s religious and secular jewelry, textiles, ivory objects, vessels, and architectural sculpture from Early Christian and Coptic monastic sites are complemented and enriched by contemporary sculptures, works on paper, and installations from the 1960s to present day that similarly serve as memorials, reliquaries, and tokens to ward off evil. As part of the exhibition, Adrian Piper’s editioned work Everything #4 invites viewers to contemplate its otherworldly statement and their reflection in a variety of contexts. It will be installed in the heart of the Byzantine Crypt and five other spaces across The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, listed below. The exhibition is made possible by The Jaharis Family Foundation.
  →  Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that animal’s year. February 17, 2026, marks the beginning of the Year of the Horse, a creature symbolizing power, strength, and vitality. Celebrating the Year of the Horse brings together works from The Met collection to explore the horse’s enduring nature and vital place in Chinese civilization. Domesticated in prehistoric times, this animal has shaped nearly every facet of life—from agriculture and transportation to trade, warfare, sport, and entertainment. In ancient China, horse-drawn chariots transported military commanders and the social elite, while in the Tang dynasty (618–907), tall and robust horses came to embody the strength of the state and cosmopolitan spirit of the empire. In Chinese popular culture, horses are among the most celebrated animals, and in the spiritual realm they serve as noble mounts for divine guardians believed to bring joy, protection, and prosperity to the household. This presentation, featuring a range of expressive works in ceramics, glass, jade, and metal, and woodblock prints, illuminates these roles while celebrating the horse’s power, vitality, and spirit.
  →  Asian works for the lunar new year.

RAW: In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter in the history of art. The first ever exhibition about the Savonnerie in the United States, A King’s Carpet sheds new light on The Met’s three carpets made as part of this ambitious scheme. Held in the iconic Wrightsman Galleries, it will explore the tumultuous history of these Baroque masterpieces from their conception and the harsh realities of their production to their dispersal after the French Revolution. A project of unheard-of scale, the weaving of the 92 carpets necessitated the establishment of massive workshops and an expendable workforce of orphans and adolescents with sharp eyesight and nimble fingers. Woven over 20 years, the carpets were never rolled out in the space for which they were intended, Louis XIV having turned his attention away from the Louvre to Versailles. During the Revolution, many were stripped of their royal emblems or sold, some eventually finding new homes with prominent American collectors such as J. P. Morgan and Alva Vanderbilt. This exhibition will present four complete carpets along with a selection of fragments, attesting to the scheme’s segmentation and dispersal. In addition, visitors will be able to observe textile conservators at work in an in-gallery temporary conservation studio as they repair and strengthen one of these monumental textiles.
  →  Savonnerie carpets and French court display.

RAW: Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography promised to capture the sky with unprecedented immediacy and detail, yet early technical limitations fell short of that promise. Photographers responded by painting in skies or manually combining negatives, until chemical and optical advances at the start of the 20th century made possible cloudscape photographs that rivaled paintings. Chasing Clouds follows the remarkable story of how the sky was represented during this period, tracing the depiction of clouds in works that balanced changing artistic conventions with scientific discoveries and new technologies. Opening with oil sketches from the start of the 19th century, and including paintings, drawings, and photographs from the following decades, it comes full circle in the 1920s with American photographer Alfred Stieglitz’s Equivalents, a series of cloud studies that reconciles poetic feeling and naturalistic depiction. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography.

RAW: Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in the United States—is activated by Hartt’s architectural intervention, bringing past and present into conversation. For this site-specific commission—consisting of two Direct View LED screens and echoing imagery from the panorama itself—Hartt draws on direct documentation of Versailles, the cinematic language of French New Wave Cinema, and photographs of the palace grounds by Eugene Atget to reshape the experience of The Met’s circular gallery space housing the work. Filmed at locations from Versailles to the Boulevard Périphérique and throughout the center of Paris, Peripheries explores the constant reinvention of the French capital. Hartt’s installation reconfigures movement and angles of vision, augmented through an original score by composer and musician Jeff Parker. Visitors are visually lured away from established centers within the city toward the margins—or the “peripheries”—where alternative perspectives and histories are often relegated. By engaging directly with Vanderlyn's panorama, Hartt has created a space to reconsider not only the historical painting itself but also examine ideas of representation and cultural memory within a living environment. The exhibition is made possible by Jan and Warren Adelson in honor of Eugénie Prendergast, and The Modern Circle.
  →  Architecture, migration and the edges of cities.

RAW: The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the United States. While serving in the U.S. Army as one of the Ritchie Boys, a specialized unit of German-speaking soldiers, Lewen arrived at the Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation in 1945. The Parade is rooted in the artist’s experience of these events as well as his coming of age during the tumultuous years when, as he reflected later, the parades after World War I gave way to the death marches of World War II. Experienced together as a sequence, the drawings carry viewers from military pageantry to conflict, devastation, and mourning through the cumulative force of their imagery. The power of The Parade lies not only in its historical origins but in its ability to speak across generations with urgency, asking viewers to confront the persistent cycles of violence that continue to shape our world. The exhibition's title, There Are No Words, is inspired by Lewen's own description of the format of The Parade as a wordless novel in which he explained: "there are no words . . . just the picture itself is the narrative." At the same time, the title reflects his conviction that the horrors of war ultimately defy language and description.
  →  Wordless picture sequence on war.

RAW: Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as central to the innovations of art from the mid-20th century onwards. This exhibition continues and amplifies this reevaluation, on their own terms and in dynamic relation to each other. Drawing its subtitle, Past Continuous, from a 1976 painting by Krasner, the exhibition traces parallel lives and practices—forged first by lived experience, then shadowed by memory. Krasner, born in Brooklyn to Jewish immigrant parents from what is now Ukraine, and Pollock, raised in Los Angeles and the American West, brought specific geographies and inheritances into a shared artistic context. Their early paths traced distinct strands of American modernism that would ultimately converge in the rupture known as Abstract Expressionism, a movement that valued the translation of inner feelings into dramatic visual action. In the wake of World War II, artists asked why art mattered and what it could be. For Pollock, his breakthrough was the “drip” technique, a radical mode of painting that flourished in a condensed but prolific period. Krasner’s varied practice was typified by ceaseless explorations of abstraction, often cued by her abiding interest in the possibilities of nature and color. Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous is the first major New York presentation devoted to either artist in more than 20 years. Featuring over 120 works, it is the first exhibition to look at the full arc of their careers together. The exhibition is made possible by Kenneth C. Griffin and Griffin Catalyst, Marina Kellen French, and the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation.
  →  Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence.

RAW: Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolve into atmospheric blur. What Bassman did not show she evoked in her expressive prints—products of darkroom distortion, achieved with tissues, brushes, and bleach. In an earlier era, such an approach might have precluded commercial success. Bassman’s timing, though, could not have been better; in 1941, at age 24, she took a design job at Harper’s Bazaar, where a group of artists and editors were then reimagining how the magazine should look. With them, she helped introduce an avant-garde sensibility to the American newsstand, advancing new possibilities for photography in print. In works from a remarkable gift to The Met, Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond highlights the influence and audacity of her magazine career. The exhibition flips between the New School in Manhattan and the “New Look” in Paris, charting Bassman’s course from design apprentice to art director and accomplished photographer. Its rare vintage prints, collages, and maquettes lay out an unlikely history of modernism, refashioned for the pages of the popular press. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar.

RAW: Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years, he achieved such profound success as a painter, designer, and architect that he was regarded as the pinnacle of artistic perfection for centuries after his death. Raphael: Sublime Poetry is the first comprehensive exhibition on Raphael in the United States, bringing together more than 170 of the artist’s greatest masterpieces and rarely seen treasures to illuminate the brilliance of Raphael’s extraordinary creativity. The son of a painter and poet, Raphael engaged with the foremost writers and thinkers of his age in Rome, displaying a poetic sensibility that captivated his peers and generations that followed. Follow the full breadth of his life and career, from his origins in Urbino to his rise in Florence, where he began to emerge as a peer of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, to his final, prolific decade at the papal court in Rome. To underscore the range of his genius, this presentation brings together important drawings, paintings, and tapestries from public and private collections across Europe and the United States, many of which have never been shown together. With particular attention to Raphael’s portrayal of women—from his use of nude female models for the first time in Western art to his tender depictions of the Madonna and Child—and recent scientific discoveries made using state-of-the-art technology, this exhibition offers a rare opportunity to experience the genius of an artist who helped shape the course of art history. Wolfe, Gilbert and Ildiko Butler, Debra and Leon Black, Mark Gorenberg and Cathrin Stickney, the Robert Lehman Foundation, Dinah Seiver
  →  First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael.

RAW: Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, which he collaboratively defined both publicly and behind the scenes. Morrison’s influence as an abstract expressionist painter began in 1943 when he traveled from rural Minnesota to New York City to study at the Art Students League on a scholarship. Immersing himself in the city’s vibrant cultural scenes, he studied painting and drawing, contributed to numerous exhibitions and publications, and openly challenged the mainstream art establishment of his generation. In New York, Morrison formed meaningful connections with artists including Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Lois Dodd, and Louise Nevelson, among others. His deep appreciation for urban life—specifically, industrial landscapes, jazz, and literature—permanently shaped his artistic practice and imagery. This exhibition explores how Morrison’s aesthetic inspiration and future trajectory drew from his love of New York, which he called a “Magical City.” Featuring 25 of his most important paintings and drawings from this early period, the exhibition culminates in his Horizon series. It also features rare archival materials that place Morrison at the heart of the Abstract Expressionist movement in 1940s and 1950s New York.
  →  Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work.

RAW: The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also adopted it as an experimental format for their art. Fanmania investigates why avant-garde artists incorporated fans into their work and sheds light on themes of gender, courtship, consumerism, and appropriation. Artists were attracted to the semicircular form for myriad reasons, including fascination with fans from Asia and Spain, commercial ambition, and their interest in formal and technical innovation. Displaying more than 75 artworks from across The Met collection, this multimedia exhibition features painted and printed fans from Europe and Asia as well as artworks that depict women wielding fans to explore the phenomenon of “fanmania.”
  →  Folding fans as fashion and display.

RAW: Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), and their mother, Mary Newbold Sargent (1826–1906). As the artistic family traveled seasonally through Europe, Mary encouraged her children’s creative aspirations. The siblings had a close relationship and often sketched and painted side by side. As John Singer Sargent’s bold portraits increasingly garnered critical attention, his younger sister Emily supported his career while building a body of work of her own that remained largely unseen. Drawn entirely from The Met collection, Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family takes a close look at their art and explores how paths diverged for daughter and son, revealing the challenges women artists faced in the late 19th century. Intended as a complement to The Met’s Sargent and Paris, this exhibition celebrates the recent gift—from the artists’ heirs—of 26 Emily Sargent watercolors, which will be making their debut. This generous gift continues a long legacy of family giving that formed the foundation of the Museum’s extensive Sargent holdings. Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund.
  →  Watercolours by Sargent's sister.

RAW: Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-funded initiative that provides free scientific support to art institutions nationwide. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close presents seven of these impressive drawings for the first time in forty years, spotlighting the multiyear collaboration between The Met and the Municipal Archives as well as the Museum’s ongoing commitment to sharing resources with New York City institutions. Designed by German engineer John A. Roebling (1806–1869), a pioneer in steel-wire rope technology used for suspension bridges, the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 by his son, Washington A. Roebling (1837–1926), with help from skilled assistants. After Washington became ill, his wife, Emily Warren Roebling (1843–1903), took over supervision of the project and played a crucial role in its success. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close offers fresh insights into the physical properties of these monumental drawings, informing future conservation treatments. It also highlights science’s vital role in uncovering new narratives and providing unprecedented access to artists’ creative processes. This special installation is made possible by the Mellon Foundation.
  →  Bridge construction in drawings and prints.

RAW: American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned recognizable subjects into wonderfully mysterious compositions. Introduced in the period between Dada and Surrealism, the rayographs’ transformative, magical qualities led the poet Tristan Tzara to describe them as capturing the moments “when objects dream.” The exhibition will be the first to situate this signature accomplishment in relation to Man Ray’s larger body of work of the 1910s and 1920s. Drawing from the collections of The Met and more than 50 U.S. and international lenders, the exhibition will feature approximately 60 rayographs and 100 paintings, objects, prints, drawings, films, and photographs—including some of the artist’s most iconic works—to highlight the central role of the rayograph in Man Ray’s boundary-breaking practice. “Before my eyes an image began to form, not quite a simple silhouette of the objects as in a straight photograph, but distorted and refracted … In the morning I examined the results, pinning a couple of the Rayographs—as I decided to call them—on the wall. They looked startlingly new and mysterious.” — Man Ray The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation. Goldsmith Foundation, The Daniel and Estrellita Brodsky Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Krantz and Harvey Sawikin, and Schiaparelli.
  →  Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. Each is believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that year. January 29, 2025, marks the beginning of the Year of the Snake, a creature characterized as alert, calm, and smart. Celebrating the Year of the Snake presents a remarkable selection of works drawn from the Museum’s collection illustrating the significant role that the snake plays in Chinese culture, including a 3,000-year-old bronze ritual vessel with a spout formed by joined snakes’ heads, a 13th-century pottery figure of a mischievously smiling snake, and an 18th-century exquisitely painted porcelain cup portraying a scene from the “Legend of the White Snake,” a popular folktale of love and romance between humans and fantastic creatures.
  →  Asian works featuring the snake.

RAW: Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to create and affirm their femme identities, exchanging photographs at gatherings or sharing them by mail. These snapshots—some candid, others playfully performative—were rediscovered at a Manhattan flea market in 2004 and have come to be known as the Casa Susanna photographs. The exhibition also features issues of Transvestia, an underground magazine that published the photographs along with fiction, poetry, makeup and clothing advice, and autobiographical essays by members of the community. During this period, most cross-dressers lived in isolation and shame. The exhibition presents new research into the double lives cross-dressers led as married men with established careers. The photographs also bring to light the type of woman they aimed to embody—such as the “girl next door,” the respectable housewife, the matron—a middle-class ideal of femininity that was both liberating and limiting. Casa Susanna offers insight into a significant pre-Stonewall cross-dressing scene, inviting visitors to understand this world and its connection to the lives of transgender people today. The exhibition is organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario and Les Rencontres d’Arles in collaboration with The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs.

RAW: In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 gods with many overlapping forms and traits. Subtle visual cues like what a figure wore, how they posed, or the symbols they carried helped identify them and their roles. Divine Egypt brings together almost 250 works of art and objects, many of them on loan from institutions such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Musée du Louvre, Paris, and the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, Copenhagen, to examine the imagery associated with the most important deities in ancient Egypt’s massive body of gods. Depictions of the stately falcon-headed Horus, the lion-headed Sakhmet, and the serene, shrouded Osiris reveal the striking ways the kings and people of ancient Egypt recognized and interacted with their gods. While the king had a daily direct relationship with the gods in the inner sanctuaries of great temples, people without such access found ways to connect with their gods through rituals, offerings, and objects of private devotion. This immersive look at how deities were depicted reveals the many roles they played in people’s lives, providing them with meaning in front of life’s uncertainties and the permanence of death. The exhibition is made possible by The John A. Moran Charitable Trust. Cullman, Alaina and Stirling Larkin, and Norby Anderson. The catalogue is made possible by the Kelekian Fund. Cotti.
  →  Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities.

RAW: Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome aspect in this guise. The seventh- to twenty-first-century works in this exhibition trace his depiction across the Indian subcontinent, the Himalayas, and Southeast Asia. Featuring 24 works across sculptures, paintings, musical instruments, ritual implements, and photography, the exhibition emphasizes the vitality and exuberance of Ganesha as the bringer of new beginnings. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: November 19, 2022–June 11, 2023 Rotation 2: June 17, 2023–June 11, 2024 Rotation 3: June 13, 2024–January 4, 2026
  →  Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art.

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":0,"title":"Inma Barrero: MOTHERS","raw":"On September 17, 2026, Lévy Gorvy Dayan will open Inma Barrero: MOTHERS, the artist’s first exhibition with the gallery. The presentation brings together eight large-scale sculptures, each on view for the first time, that represent a different maternal presence informed by prehistoric, ancient, and modern worlds across global continents. The sculptures come together to create, in Barrero’s words, a “chorus” of mother figures, “bearing witness and answering one another across the room.” The basis of Barrero’s work is the handmade ceramic bead, with hundreds of beads joining to create a single sculpture. The beads take their inspiration from divine and universal sources, from the artist’s memories of her grandmother’s rosary to Greek komboloi (worry beads), and Buddhist prayer beads, which she encountered while living and working in Kyoto. To form the beads, she employs unconventional combinations of porcelain, earthenware, and terracotta, as well as soils from Japan, Mexico, and Spain to “unite different sources of earth in the figure of the mother.” She merges these with different glazing techniques and links or “weaves” the beads with metal wire, an homage to two forms of ceramic repair—the Spanish lañado, which restores ceramics with metal bindings or lañas—and the Japanese kintsugi, which mends breakages with lacquer dusted with powdered metals, such as gold."}
{"i":1,"title":"Wangari Mathenge: Re-membering","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is delighted to announce Wangari Mathenge: Re-membering, the artist’s first solo exhibition with the gallery, opening on the ground floor of 19 East 64th Street on September 17, 2026. Probing how culture, memory, and landscape are made and unmade, the presentation will mark Wangari Mathenge’s first public exhibition of sculpture and will debut five paintings. The exhibition’s title Re-membering derives from the artist’s series of the same name, which she began in the fall of 2024. It was inspired by Ngugi wa Thiong’o’s 2009 book Something Torn and New: An African Renaissance—which focuses on the critical impacts of colonialism and slavery on the experience of diasporic and continental Africans, as well as strategies of resistance and recovery. The first part of Mathenge’s project involved extensive study of Kenyan colonial literature and cultural objects from 1900 to 1963—the year of Kenya’s independence from the United Kingdom—to examine and interrogate how history and her own cultural identity had been formed. Her research resulted in the first cycle of canvases (dated 2025) in the series, featuring colorful overhead views of lone figures in states of contemplation, surrounded by accumulated books, objects, and textiles."}
{"i":2,"title":"Pierre Soulages: Paintings on Paper","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is pleased to announce Pierre Soulages: Paintings on Paper, which will feature more than twenty of the French artist’s works on paper, the majority of which have never been exhibited before. We are honored to collaborate on this presentation with the artist’s widow, Colette Soulages, to reveal the importance of the medium to Pierre Soulages’s groundbreaking oeuvre. Paintings on Paper marks the sixth solo exhibition of Soulages’s work presented by Dominique Lévy during her decades-long relationship with the artist and his estate. The medium of paper is foundational to Soulages’s artistic practice, dating back to the mid-1940s. Paper was his first support, and he evolved his body of paintings on paper alongside and independently to his canvases; the paper works often anticipating developments he would bring to his oil compositions. Arguably, the artist’s works on paper are the purest form of his painterly expression. Rendered in walnut stain, gouache, and ink, they express his unconstrained creativity. Unlike his canvases, Soulages did not need to determine the format of his paintings on paper in advance and wait for a stretcher to be prepared. Instead, on the paper support, he could immediately capture his, in his words, “inner imperative.” Further, Soulages gravitated to the swift rhythm of working on paper; the fluidity of his pigments and the absorptive nature of his support requiring rapid decision-making and denying opportunities for changes or corrections."}
{"i":3,"title":"Thomas Houseago: Death's Sacred Mirror","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is thrilled to announce Thomas Houseago: Death’s Sacred Mirror, opening June 4 in London. Curated by Houseago in the spirit of a cabinet of curiosities, the exhibition will unveil new sculptures by the artist alongside a selection of objects—ranging from Egyptian, Greek, and Aztec artifacts to works by Joseph Beuys, Louise Bourgeois, Jacob Epstein, Lucio Fontana, Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, Julia Isídrez, Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Matisse, Marisa Merz, Meret Oppenheim, James ‘Son Ford’ Thomas, and Günther Uecker. Titled after the obsidian mirrors of Aztec culture—an example of which will be on display—Death’s Sacred Mirror takes the visitor on a journey through the sculptural histories important to Houseago’s own practice. A new edition of Houseago’s Crystal No. 1 (2026) anchors the presentation. The work represents the artist’s examination of themes such as beauty, grace, and femininity, complementing his career-long exploration of towering masculine figures. “Sculpture,” Houseago has said, “is a very brutal commitment. You’re forced to look back and marvel at what was done...” In Death’s Sacred Mirror, Houseago’s sculptures find resonance in artworks and antiquities that span millennia—revealing his never-ending search for timeless aspects of the sculptural medium and his ongoing investigations of its legacies and possibilities. Antiquities included in Thomas Houseago: Death’s Sacred Mirror are presented in collaboration with Rupert Wace and Charles Ede Ltd, London."}
{"i":4,"title":"LGD Hammer: Willem de Kooning, Milkmaid (Untitled X) (1984)","raw":"On Saturday, May 16, LGD Hammer will launch with the sale of Willem de Kooning’s late masterpiece Milkmaid (Untitled X), 1984. This monumental and joyful canvas, presented with a presale estimate of $10,000,000 – $15,000,000, is recognized as one of the outstanding paintings from de Kooning’s late period, in which the pioneering Abstract Expressionist chose a new approach to harmony, balance, and light as his creative preoccupations. This is the first time that Milkmaid (Untitled X) is available at auction. For further information on de Kooning's Milkmaid (Untitled X), including factsheet and condition report—or to register bids and to discuss future consignments, please contact hammer@levygorvydayan.com or 646 627 8288 For press inquiries, please contact Molly Krause, krause co., molly@molly.nyc"}
{"i":5,"title":"Armig Santos: Baladas","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is delighted to announce the gallery’s first solo exhibition Baladas with Puerto Rican artist Armig Santos, opening on April 16, 2026. The exhibition will debut a series of canvases that explore the artist’s personal and pastoral relationship to the islands of Puerto Rico, drawing upon historical, archival, and ecological sources of inspiration. With the exhibition’s title, Santos nods to José Luis González’s 1978 novel Balada de otro tiempo (Ballad of Another Time), which remains a significant representation of traditional farming—or campesino—culture in Puerto Rico. Remarking on his new body of work, Santos states, “Every painting is a ballad to Puerto Rico in its own way. The works are reminders of the past but also a way to understand what is happening now.”"}
{"i":6,"title":"The Adventure of Domenico Gnoli","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is delighted to announce The Adventure of Domenico Gnoli, the largest exhibition of works by the artist in the United States in more than five decades, following his celebrated 1969 solo presentation at Sidney Janis Gallery, New York. Featuring paintings, drawings, etchings, notebooks, and letters, the survey represents a critical continuation of Gnoli’s legacy in America, subsequent to his major 2021–22 retrospective at the Fondazione Prada, Milan. We are proud to organize this exhibition in collaboration with Gnoli’s widow, Yannick Vu, and the artist’s estate—as well as to present works from the artist’s sister, Mimì Gnoli, and major private collections. In his brief yet prolific life, Domenico Gnoli (1933–1970) established himself as a master of perception, creating a body of paintings unparalleled in their composition and meticulous detail. Born in Rome, he began his career as an illustrator and set and costume designer, working and traveling across the world while arriving to his mature style as a painter in 1964. His late paintings picture everyday objects— including clothing, hair, beds, and sofas—enlarged, fragmented, and suspended. The canvases are at once absorbing and uncanny, revealing secrets of contemporary life yet unconsidered."}
{"i":7,"title":"Mark Bradford: Thievery by Servants","raw":"We are pleased to announce that Thievery by Servants (2013) by Mark Bradford is now on view on the fifth floor of the New York gallery through April 11, 2026. Monumental in scale, Thievery by Servants comprises 50 panels across nearly 30 feet—in a bold interplay of paper, text, and color that demonstrates the artist’s provocative repositioning of abstraction in the twenty-first century. The work is a crucial example of Bradford’s Merchant Poster series, initiated circa 2005. In this body of work, Bradford repurposes a particular form of local advertisement—collected from the streets of his neighborhood in South Los Angeles—that promotes among other things, small business offerings, quick cash, legal services, and housing. He sources these materials, which take the forms of billboards, flyers, newsprint, posters, and handmade signs, and reflect the specific needs of local communities, from the windows of small shops, fences, telephone poles, and wood scaffolding. Layering such posters and other found papers in his studio, Bradford creates dense surfaces that are carved into and sanded down, exposing underlying strata and textural relationships. In the resulting works, the surface text often becomes intentionally obfuscated, allowing other material traces to come to the foreground and the ephemeral nature of shifting social currents."}
{"i":8,"title":"Winter Installation","raw":"Beginning January 21 in New York, Lévy Gorvy Dayan will feature a rotating installation of painting and sculpture from Pop art to the present."}
{"i":9,"title":"Juanita McNeely","raw":"On January 20, 2026, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opens an exhibition of Juanita McNeely’s revolutionary oeuvre, marking the first solo presentation of the late New York painter in London. Spanning paintings and works on paper from the 1960s to the 2010s, the exhibition charts five decades of her uncompromising practice, defined by a fearless and provocative approach to the human body. A foundational feminist voice, McNeely worked amid shifting artistic, social, and political backdrops with visceral clarity and force. The works on view reflect her lifelong commitment to breaking taboos and speaking out about women’s experiences—touching on the highs and lows of pleasure and pain, sexuality, bodily functions, and disability. Inviting a timely revisitation of McNeely’s life and practice, the exhibition recognizes a historical visionary whose work remains urgently contemporary."}
{"i":10,"title":"La mort de l'amour","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is proud to announce La mort de l’amour and Ménage à trois, two provocative and unprecedented exhibitions uniting the visionary work of Leonor Fini (1907–1996) and contemporary Polish artist Aleksandra Waliszewska (b. 1976). Opening October 9, 2025, this marks the first major presentation of a large ensemble of paintings by Fini in London since 1967—a rare opportunity to rediscover her subversive legacy alongside one of today’s most compelling painters. On the first floor of the gallery’s storied Mayfair townhouse (formerly the Empress Club), La mort de l’amour will feature important paintings by Fini and Waliszewska in dialogue. On the ground floor, Ménage à trois will present Fini and Waliszewska alongside Stanislao Lepri (1905–1980), whose work expands on their shared themes while also constituting a meaningful connection to Fini. Lepri was one of Fini’s two great loves, and she lived with him in a polyamorous relationship for four decades. These presentations crucially underscore the agency of two women artists whose iconographies center on female desire and human mortality. Organized by Victoria Gelfand-Magalhaes (President, Europe) and curated by feminist art historian Alison M. Gingeras, La mort de l’amour and Ménage à trois invite viewers to witness a transgressive dialogue that blurs the boundaries between reality, fantasy, and delirium. Join us at 11 am on October 9 for a conversation between curator Alison M. Gingeras and Surrealist specialist Professor Alyce Mahon, discussing the artists and works on display."}
{"i":11,"title":"Ziva Jelin","raw":"On September 25, 2025, Lévy Gorvy Dayan will open Ziva Jelin, debuting new paintings by the artist on the gallery’s fifth floor. Across her oeuvre, Ziva Jelin portrays her immediate environment through a lens of intimate experience and memory. Conveying personally resonant images, her landscapes and domestic scenes depict her lifelong home and surroundings in Be’eri, Israel—including pastoral vistas of neighboring buildings, trees and flora, streetlamps, and winding lanes. Jelin’s figuration is attended by abstract pours and cascades of thinned, aqueous paint—bringing together indeterminacy and chance, and gravity and time, with her representations of place."}
{"i":12,"title":"Downtown/Uptown: New York in the Eighties","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is delighted to announce the exhibition Downtown/Uptown: New York in the Eighties organized in collaboration with Mary Boone and opening on September 18 in New York. The presentation will feature significant paintings, sculptures, photographs, and works on paper by artists Jean-Michel Basquiat, Ross Bleckner, Francesco Clemente, Eric Fischl, Guerrilla Girls, Peter Halley, Keith Haring, Jeff Koons, Barbara Kruger, Louise Lawler, Sherrie Levine, Sally Mann, Robert Mapplethorpe, Cady Noland, Ricky Powell, Richard Prince, David Salle, Kenny Scharf, Julian Schnabel, Andres Serrano, Cindy Sherman, Haim Steinbach, Tseng Kwong Chi, Andy Warhol, David Wojnarowicz, and Christopher Wool. The 1980s New York art scene was a locus of experimentation and creativity. As Boone states, “The ’80s was about discovery and new ideas. There was a feeling of possibility and fluidity, supported by an engaged arts community.” With the city as a catalyst, artists—both emerging and established—probed art history, politics, current events, and visual and consumer culture, and conceived new forms of representation. The works in Downtown/Uptown: New York in the Eighties represent the diverse and groundbreaking art created during, and in response to, this epochal time—while also highlighting the community shared by the featured artists."}
{"i":13,"title":"Francesco Clemente: Self-Portraits in the Bardo","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan will present Francesco Clemente’s Self-Portraits in the Bardo­—a significant series from his recent practice on view for the first time. Here, in eight vivid and visionary canvases, the artist fuses self-portraiture with an exploration of imagery found in traditional Tibetan Buddhist representations of the bardo. The bardo is a central concept in Tibetan Buddhism, describing a liminal state of consciousness associated with the moment between death and rebirth. On each canvas, Clemente creates a contrast between his grisaille self-portrait in the foreground and the richly hued background, where the deities of the bardo manifest in kaleidoscopic arrangements of form and color. Expressions of humanity and contemporary life, the paintings speak to the pursuit of spiritual guidance and deliverance—and to Clemente’s belief in art as a unique vehicle for insight and enlightenment. Self-Portraits in the Bardo marks the gallery’s third solo presentation of Clemente in London, and the first in the new space at the Empress Club, 35 Dover Street. The exhibition will be accompanied by an essay by Sir Norman Rosenthal."}
{"i":14,"title":"Austyn Weiner: Half Way Home","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is thrilled to announce Half Way Home by Los-Angeles based artist Austyn Weiner, opening on May 8, 2025. Weiner’s debut solo exhibition with the gallery will comprise three monumental paintings that form an immersive installation, representing the emotional, physical, and spiritual odyssey she traversed over the past year. Using her pre-pandemic abstract landscape The Last First Symphony (2020) as a starting point, the exhibition was inspired in late 2023 by Claude Monet’s elliptical rooms of Water Lilies at the Musée de l’Orangerie in Paris, which were formative to Weiner. Wanting to create her own space of reflection and solace, she embarked on an ambitious room-sized installation of paintings. Yet shortly thereafter, the artist experienced incalculable loss in the span of a few months with the deaths of her father, her closest friend, and her grandmother. The large-scale works became the theater for processing her emotions, and for her experience of desolation and resilience. The ensuing panels capture the marks of this struggle, radiating the artist’s emotional realities of pain, sorrow, and longing as they evolved during the yearlong period; by her own admission, “this is the longest I have worked on a surface.”"}
{"i":15,"title":"The Human Situation: Marcia Marcus, Alice Neel, Sylvia Sleigh","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is delighted to announce The Human Situation: Marcia Marcus, Alice Neel, Sylvia Sleigh. The exhibition, conceived by Saara Pritchard, will mark the first focused presentation of Marcia Marcus (1928–2025), Alice Neel (1900–1984), and Sylvia Sleigh (1916–2010), who each worked in New York City and shared in its artistic circles in the dynamic decades of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. During this period, they portrayed mutual sitters, exhibited together, and participated in public discussions. Their representations of loved ones, friends, and acquaintances are distinctive in form and style, yet share in their evocation of the human spirit, capturing Sleigh’s reflection “The human situation adds a certain poignancy to portraits...”"}
{"i":16,"title":"Danielle Orchard and Aristide Maillol","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan is thrilled to announce an exhibition of sculptures by Aristide Maillol (1861–1944) in conversation with new paintings by Danielle Orchard (b. 1985), created on the occasion of the exhibition. Staging a dialogue between painting and sculpture that is beyond time, the exhibition will represent visions of form, volume, and line, explored through the female figure. Central to the practices of both artists is the woman as muse. Here, in scenes domestic and natural, Orchard depicts physical and psychological insights gained in her experiences as a new mother—an infant shares each composition with her female protagonists. Maillol often said, “I invent nothing, no more than the apple tree can pretend to have invented its apples.” His works and those of Orchard are both marked by the impulse towards, in the words of art historian John Rewald, “the expression of truth and the balance of forms.”"}
{"i":17,"title":"Auras: Portraits of Women by British Artists","raw":"Opening March 6, Lévy Gorvy Dayan presents Auras, an exhibition exploring connections and divergences between two generations of British figurative painters through their portrayals of women. Among the works included are images of friends and lovers, models and muses, empowered individuals and anonymous enigmas—articulated in ways that range from forceful realism to the symbolic and allegorical. The exhibition includes paintings by Frank Auerbach, Lucian Freud, David Hockney, R. B. Kitaj, Leon Kossoff, and Paula Rego alongside works by contemporary artists Jenny Saville, Alison Watt, and Lynette Yiadom-Boakye."}
{"i":18,"title":"Alison Watt","raw":"On March 6, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opens Alison Watt, a presentation of new works by the artist to coincide with her solo exhibition at Pitzhanger Manor & Gallery in Walpole Park, West London. Watt’s still life paintings are distinguished by a deft realism informed by perception, memory, and art historical research. The paintings on view at Lévy Gorvy Dayan and Pitzhanger form part of a series that engages with the life and collection of Sir John Soane (1753–1837), one of the foremost architects of the British Regency era. Soane is known for his eclectic collection of paintings, sculptures, and architectural fragments, as well as models, books, drawings, and furniture, part of which remains on-site at Pitzhanger, his main residence between 1804 and 1810."}
{"i":19,"title":"Michelangelo Pistoletto: To Step Beyond","raw":"On January 16, 2025, Lévy Gorvy Dayan presented the significant solo exhibition Michelangelo Pistoletto: To Step Beyond, organized in collaboration with Galleria Continua. This major presentation featured painting and sculpture spanning the Italian artist’s groundbreaking practice from the early 1960s to the present, illuminating the radicality of his evolving oeuvre. Pistoletto once wrote, “If art is life’s mirror, then I am the mirror maker.” Ever advancing the bounds of his artmaking, Pistoletto engages developments in technology, society, and the environment to consider contemporary existence while also looking to the future."}
{"i":20,"title":"Andy Warhol: Ten Portraits of Jews of the Twentieth Century","raw":"Opening on November 14, Lévy Gorvy Dayan will exhibit a rare and complete group of ten unique collages belonging to Andy Warhol’s series Ten Portraits of Jews of the Twentieth Century (1980). On view on the fifth floor of the gallery’s Beaux-Arts townhouse at 19 East 64th Street, the vibrant and multifaceted works are demonstrative examples of the artist’s physical process and his compositional method. Arrayed together, the total body of ten collages provides a potent counter to Warhol’s famous remark of 1963—“I want to be a machine”—revealing insights into his haptic and experimental artmaking, and the decisive evolution of his renowned Pop portraits."}
{"i":21,"title":"Francesco Clemente: Summer Love in the Fall","raw":"On October 29, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opened Francesco Clemente: Summer Love in the Fall, marking the venerated artist’s first exhibition at the gallery’s Beaux-Arts townhouse at 19 East 64th Street. Here, across multiple floors, Clemente debuted recent large-scale paintings in oil, watercolors, and frescoes, demonstrating his engagement with form and material—and melding artistic influences from India, West Africa, Egypt, and Italy to classical Greece and Rome. The subject of his new work is grounded in introspection and personal connection, echoing the expression penned by William Blake, “Love, the human form divine.” Created during the warm and lush summer months, Clemente’s representations in oil of amorous love and the erotic impulse are intimate yet universal, addressing physical and emotional connection. His earthen, pared-down palette emphasizes metallic hues of gold and silver, while also referencing the pictorial traditions of the Italian trecento and Renaissance—the dry grays of Giotto and the cool greens of Fra Angelico. The paintings are populated with figurative iconography, including that of angels, and resonant themes of spirituality and sexuality."}
{"i":22,"title":"Enchanted Alchemies: Magic, Mysticism, and the Occult in Art","raw":"On October 1, 2024, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opened Enchanted Alchemies, an exhibition exploring themes of magic, mysticism, and the occult in art. The exhibition places historical figures such as Gertrude Abercrombie, Eileen Agar, Leonora Carrington, Elda Cerrato, Ithell Colquhoun, Leonor Fini, and Monica Sjöö in dialogue with contemporary practitioners, including Francesco Clemente, Chitra Ganesh, Alejandro Jodorowsky, Bharti Kher, Linder, and Goshka Macuga. Featuring over 50 works by 27 artists spanning painting, sculpture, ceramic, watercolor, and collage—some newly created—Enchanted Alchemies brings together a range of expressive approaches to magic and mystical thinking. On November 12, the display evolved into phase II, reflecting the transformative and alchemical themes of the artists' works. On October 6, 2024, a panel discussion relating to the exhibition was held at the 1 Hotel Mayfair at 4 PM. It was moderated by renowned art critic Louisa Buck, and featured the artist Linder and writer Irenosen Okojie. The panel was chaired by Rachel Thomas, Chief Curator of the Hayward Gallery."}
{"i":23,"title":"Thomas Houseago: Night Sea Journey","raw":"On September 9, 2024, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opened Thomas Houseago: Night Sea Journey, a major exhibition that sees the artist pushing boundaries—material and psychological—as he sprawls intricate visions across three floors of the gallery’s Beaux-Arts townhouse. Night Sea Journey marks Houseago’s first exhibition in New York City in ten years. It showcases new paintings and sculptures that realize the artist’s recent battles with trauma, from which he emerged with a greater understanding of his powers. The result is a raw odyssey from darkness to light that culminates in a symphonic room-spanning tapestry on the gallery’s skylit top floor, created en plein air in Malibu, like the rest of the exhibition. Night Sea Journey included a film on Houseago directed by Andrew Dominik and produced by Saul Germaine, PJ van Sandwijk, and Paul Kahil."}
{"i":24,"title":"Material States: Yves Klein and Günther Uecker","raw":"On June 20, 2024, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opened Material States: Yves Klein and Günther Uecker, an exhibition exploring connections between Yves Klein (1928–1962) and Günther Uecker (b. 1930). Titans of Europe’s postwar avant-garde, Klein and Uecker developed radically alternative visual languages at a time when artistic traditions were increasingly questioned and dismantled. The artists’ lives converged in manifold ways, and, in January 1962, Klein married Uecker’s sister Rotraut, rendering the two family. Material States included major works by each artist, including Uecker’s poignant Hommage à Yves Klein II, created the same year as Klein’s untimely death at the age of 34."}
{"i":25,"title":"Joel Mesler: Kitchens are good rooms to cry in","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan was excited to announce the opening of Joel Mesler: Kitchens are good rooms to cry in on June 6, 2024. This major presentation marked the artist’s fourth exhibition with the gallery and the first in New York, comprising new paintings, sculptures, and installations across two floors of the Beaux-Arts townhouse at 19 East 64th Street. With Kitchens are good rooms to cry in, Mesler examined and shared his personal journey from his youth in Los Angeles to the present day—achieved through an installation in three vignettes, each relating to childhood, adulthood, and midlife. Through a dazzling display of work across media, Mesler expounded on the insights of his earned experience, as well as the questions yet to be answered, in a presentation that was at once intimate and exuberant, reflective and bold. On July 2, 2024, Mesler’s solo exhibition at the gallery was joined by his public installation, Pool Party, at the Rink at Rockefeller Center, presented by Rockefeller Center and Art Production Fund. Pool Party activated multiple locations throughout Rockefeller Center, centering at the Rink with the creation of a patterned pool as well as the artist’s sculptural floats, inflatables, and beach balls."}
{"i":26,"title":"Alison Watt: Breathing In","raw":"Lévy Gorvy Dayan was delighted to present Breathing In, the first United States exhibition for the celebrated British painter Alison Watt, whose still lifes married contemporary concepts with the painterly language of classic European portraiture. Opening May 9, 2024, Breathing In featured a host of new and never-before-seen paintings and coincided with Lévy Gorvy Dayan’s presentation of Watt’s significant canvas Peale (2018) at the Independent Art Fair. Watt’s paintings luxuriated in the details from art historical portraiture that served as encapsulations of the sitter’s character, with special emphasis on fabrics and the stories told by their creases. White predominated in her paintings, though like her inanimate subjects, it was given profound dimension through her explorations of its reflective intricacies. The overall effect Watt achieved was one of absent presence. “The still life can be very intimate,” Watt has said. “And because of its close connection to us, how we view it is continually being redefined. It continues to evolve because it reflects us. So, by its very nature, it is linked to the portrait. The still life is a portrait without likeness.”"}
{"i":27,"title":"Yves Klein and the Tangible World","raw":"On April 11, 2024, Lévy Gorvy Dayan opened Yves Klein and the Tangible World, an exhibition devoted to the engagement of the body in the visionary French artist’s oeuvre. Curated in collaboration with the Yves Klein Foundation, the presentation brought together nearly 30 examples of Yves Klein’s Anthropométries (1960–62) and Peintures de feu (Fire Paintings, 1961–62), as well as Sculpture tactile (Tactile Sculpture, conceived c. 1957) in the first focused juxtaposition of these works. Klein’s paintings affirm his conviction that art should exude life. His Anthropométries and Peintures de feu exemplify this ethos, possessing traces of living flesh and imprinted memories of fire, water, earth, and air. Klein once wrote, “The link between spirit and matter is energy. The combined mechanism of these three elements generates our tangible world, which is claimed to be real but is in fact ephemeral.” Through direct physical contact and alchemy, energy is captured and transferred in the works on view, binding the soul and the material support. On the occasion of the exhibition Yves Klein and the Tangible World, Lévy Gorvy Dayan presented a performance of Klein’s Monotone-Silence Symphony at St. James’ Church, New York, on Wednesday, May 1, at 6:30 pm. Sculpture tactile will be activated every Thursday and Saturday from 2 pm to 6 pm. Please be aware that this schedule is subject to change."}
{"i":28,"title":"Kerry James Marshall: The Histories","raw":"Organized with the artist’s support, the exhibition covers over four decades of his career. It brings together many bodies of his work, with primarily paintings, as well as examples of the artist's prints, drawings and sculpture, from museums and private collections across North America and Europe. The exhibition opens with the artist’s early mature works, created in the 1980s, including Invisible Man (1986), inspired by Ralph Ellison’s eponymous novel (1952). This section establishes Kerry James Marshall's concern with depicting Black figures, while also raising questions about representation in art history and who and what has been excluded. The artist’s radical approach—using a range of black pigments mixed with other colors—affects the viewer’s perception of his figures. The second gallery displays large canvases dealing with the history of the “Middle Passage,” an expression designating the journey of captured Africans across the Atlantic to be sold as slaves. The exhibition continues with a presentation of monumental works illustrating scenes of contemporary life in settings ranging from hair and beauty salons to parks and outdoor spaces. Referencing artists such as Édouard Manet, Gustave Caillebotte, Georges Seurat, and other painters of modern life, Marshall offers a corrective to the absence of large scale images portraying the everyday experience of Black people in the history of Western art."}
{"i":29,"title":"Simone Fattal: Cities at the Bottom of a Lake","raw":"In fall 2026, the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris is devoting a major exhibition to Simone Fattal, a Lebanese American artist born in Damas, Syria, in 1942 and based in Paris for many years. Bringing together some one hundred works, the exhibition covers over fifty years of her artistic trajectory—from early landscape paintings to ceramics and collages. Organized into successive groupings rather than chronologically, the exhibition sequence invites visitors to explore the key themes of a constantly renewed diverse body of work. Enthralled with literature and archeology, Simone Fattal initially studied philosophy at the School of Letters in Beirut, then at the Sorbonne, complementing her training with classes at the École du Louvre. In the late 1960s, it was in Beirut that she took up painting, endlessly depicting trees, the seaside and mountains, and pushing the limits of figuration. In 1972, she met the Lebanese poet and painter Etel Adnan (1925-2021), with whom she shared nearly fifty years of life and creative complicity. Forced to leave Lebanon in 1980 because of the civil war, Simone Fattal moved to Sausalito, California, north of San Francisco Bay. She temporarily gave up painting to devote herself fully to founding The Post-Apollo Press publishing house (1982-2017), whose name was inspired by the Apollo space program that she perceived as the beginning of a new era in the history of humanity."}
{"i":30,"title":"Florian Krewer: woven thin","raw":"The Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris presents Florian Krewer: woven thin, the artist’s first solo exhibition in France. The exhibition brings together sixteen monumental paintings installed inside the permanent collection display, including several previously unseen works. Florian Krewer: woven thin follows the donation of several of the artist's works to the museum. Hung in a dense and closely conceived display, they form a rich pictorial panorama reflecting the intensity of the artist’s practice, offering a sense of total immersion into his pictorial universe. Krewer’s practice is deeply autobiographical, shaped by a direct engagement with the world around him in all its raw beauty and brutality. Drawing from lived experience as well as fantasy, the wide-ranging cast of characters that inhabit his ethereal landscapes and interiors are stripped of context and assume lives of their own. Dancers, performers, animals, and solitary figures drift through shifting cityscapes. They appear weightless and untethered, as though released from the gravity of the physical world and its social constraints. Within these suspended worlds, Krewer’s paintings celebrate moments of intimacy and the resilience of community against often hostile environments. Florian Krewer (born in Gerolstein, Germany in 1986) studied painting at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf. Recent museum exhibitions include Nice Dog, M WOODS Museum, Beijing (2023); everybody rise, Aspen Art Museum (2023); and Es liebt Dich und Deine Körperlichkeit ein Verwirrter, Kunsthalle Düsseldorf (2022). His work can be found in the collections of the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris; Musée national d'art moderne - Centre Georges Pompidou, Paris; the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the Hammer Museum, Los Angeles; the Los Angeles County Museum of Art; and the Albertina Museum, Vienna. In 2022, Krewer was awarded the Prix Jean-François Prat by the Bredin Prat Foundation. He lives and works in the South Bronx, New York. The exhibitio"}
{"i":31,"title":"Prix Marcel Duchamp 2026","raw":"For its 2026 edition, the Prix Marcel Duchamp will be hosted for the second time at the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris, in partnership with Centre Pompidou. The exhibition of the four shortlisted artists is curated by Odile Burluraux and Nicolas Liucci-Goutnikov. Since its creation in 2000 by ADIAF, the Prix Marcel Duchamp has recognised numerous artists who have gone on to become leading figures on the international contemporary art scene. As the historic Centre Pompidou building undergoes its major renovation programme, the Prize joins the institution's wider constellation of partner venues. The Prix Marcel Duchamp exhibitions will therefore be presented at the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris through 2029. For this edition, the four shortlisted artists—Joël Andrianomearisoa, Brognon Rollin (David Brognon and Stéphanie Rollin), Laura Henno and Josèfa Ntjam—will present their works within the museum's permanent collections. The exhibition will be freely accessible from 2 October 2026 to 7 February 2027. The winner of the 2026 Prix Marcel Duchamp will be announced on Thursday 22 October 2026, during Paris Art Week, by an international jury chaired by Xavier Rey, Director of the Musée National d’Art Moderne, and composed of museum directors, collectors and two artists. Organised since its inception in partnership with Centre Pompidou, and endowed with €90,000, including €35,000 awarded to the prizewinner, the Prix Marcel Duchamp is recognised as one of the leading awards in the field of contemporary art."}
{"i":32,"title":"Lee Miller","raw":"Initiated by the Tate Britain and in collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago, the exhibition brings together roughly 250 vintage and modern prints, some of which have never been exhibited, offering a fresh perspective on her oeuvre. A key figure of the international avant-garde, Lee Miller (1907, Poughkeepsie, United States - 1977, Chiddingly, United Kingdom) was by turns a fashion model, surrealist artist, portraitist, fashion photographer, and war correspondent accredited by the U.S. army. Long relegated to the role of muse, she is now recognized as one of the major twentieth-century photographers. The exhibition follows her entire career, from her beginnings in New York to the war years in Europe, including her stint in Egypt and her life in London. It showcases the breadth of a body of work in which formal experimentation, visual boldness, and political engagement coexist. Eighteen years after the last French retrospective at the Jeu de Paume, the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris proposes an exhibition in six sections, combining both chronological and thematic approaches"}
{"i":33,"title":"Estonian Realities","raw":"The exhibition showcases the diversity and vitality of the Estonian art scene through the eyes of these three artists from different generations. They all reflect, in their own way, a creative moment in this country whose history is both enthralling and tormented. Marked by the tension between European and Russian spheres of influence, Estonia has been able to preserve a unique, fertile, and vibrant culture, which has produced the works on view in the exhibition. The treatment of the human body operates as a common thread between the work of the three creators: a body at times abandoned, fragmented, expanded, transformed, exuberant, or combative. Anu Põder, a central figure (1947-2013) Anu Põder has been a major art historical rediscovery in recent years. The exhibition features about fifteen works revealing the singular world of this artist whose practice developed outside the rigid academic framework of her era. The materials used by Anu Põder—burlap, plastic, soap, aluminum—convey the precariousness of her condition under Soviet rule, while revealing the upheavals in Estonian society at the moment of the country’s regained independence. The artist’s body is often implicitly present in her vulnerable, fragile sculptures that defy the boundaries of traditional figurative conventions. Olga Terri, postwar painting (1916-2011) A series of portraits that Olga Terri painted from 1945 to 1950 are gathered in one room. This space bears witness to the personal and collective hardships experienced during the Nazi occupation and the Soviet occupation that followed after 1944. Imbued with a feeling of melancholy, the slouching posture of her silent figures, painted in muted colors, expresses an impending instability."}
{"i":34,"title":"Brion Gysin: The Last Museum","raw":"Born in Great Britain in 1916, Brion Gysin was a multifaceted artist, painter, poet, performer, photographer, and musician, often associated with the Beat Generation. Inventor of the Cut-up and the Dreamachine, his oeuvre unfolds at the conjunction of painting and writing, enlisting a always renewed array of visual languages. Drawn to alterity and marginality, Brion Gysin roamed the world, mingling with alternative and underground movements. His travels brought him into contact with wide-ranging creative and intellectual circles, within which his work often finds unexpected resonance and enjoys an almost magical aura. Inspired by these encounters, his ceaseless creative drive found expression through a variety of forms such as sound and visual poetry, experimental film, performance, novels, and music, not to mention painting and photography. The exhibition retraces the major stages of this uncommon career encompassing all the twentieth-century avant-garde movements, and in counterpoint, showcases the works of artists with whom he forged close ties and whom he inspired: William Burroughs, Françoise Janicot and Bernard Heidsieck, John Giorno, Keith Haring, Patti Smith, Ramuntcho Matta, and so on. It also bears witness to the strong connections between Brion Gysin and Paris, where he lived for a large part of his life. He spent time in the French capital during the 1930s when he was a student at the Sorbonne. At the turn of the 1960s, he gravitated toward the artists of the Beat Generation at the famous Beat Hotel (9, rue Gîtle-Cœur, Paris 6th). From the 1970s until his death in 1986, he was living in an apartment located opposite the Pompidou Center. Shortly before his death, he bequeathed his entire estate to the city of Paris. The exhibition, comprising over 140 of the artist’s works, builds on the Gysin collection at the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris, the most extensive in the world, complemented by exceptional loans from public and private collections in France and"}
{"i":35,"title":"Otobong Nkanga: \"I dreamt of you in colours\"","raw":"“I think of the Earth as a being, like our body: water, air, tree, stone, plant are beings like our body.” The Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris is featuring the artist Otobong Nkanga’s first monographic exhibition in a Parisian museum in fall 2025. Since the late 1990s, Otobong Nkanga (born in Kano, Nigeria in 1974 and now living in Antwerp, Belgium) has been addressing themes related to ecology and relationships between the body and the territory in her practice, creating powerful and visually impressive artworks. Drawing upon her own personal history and her research bearing witness to an array of transhistorical influences, she creates networks and constellations between humans and landscapes, while broaching the reparative capacity of natural and relational systems."}
{"i":36,"title":"George Condo","raw":"Born in 1957 in Concord, New Hampshire, George Condo moved to New York in 1979. He quickly became part of the local art scene, working notably for Andy Warhol’s silkscreen studio. Subsequently, he went to Cologne and then Paris, his primary place of residence from 1985 to 1995. His broad knowledge of European art led him to develop a personal approach to figurative painting and a fierce take on his times. Following the museum’s two retrospectives devoted to Jean-Michel Basquiat in 2010 and Keith Haring in 2013, both artists with whom George Condo shared a true artistic friendship, this exhibition has been conceived as the last chapter of a New York trilogy, exploring the emergence of a new generation of painters in the 1980s. All of them, each in their own way, have contributed to reassessing the medium of painting, a direction which George Condo, the only one to have survived that decade, has been pursuing ever since. Organized in dialogue with the artist, the exhibition aims to revisit over four decades of George Condo’s career by presenting his most emblematic works. Many works from major American and European museums (MoMA, the MET, the Whitney Museum of American Art, and the Louisiana Museum of Modern Art) and private collections are brought together for the first time in Paris thanks to this project. The exhibition features roughly 80 paintings, 110 drawings—grouped together in a space devoted to graphic arts—and some twenty sculptures interspersed throughout the exhibition."}
{"i":37,"title":"Matisse and Marguerite: Through Her Father's Eyes","raw":"From Matisse’s images of her childhood to the end of the Second World War, Marguerite remained his most constant model and the only one to have featured in his work over several decades. Remarkably frank and intense, his portraits of her convey an emotion that reflects the depth of the artist's affection for his daughter. Matisse seemed to see in her a kind of mirror of himself, as if in his depictions he was finally achieving the \"almost complete identification of painter and model\" to which he aspired. This chronologically organised exhibition bears witness to the strength of the bond between the artist and his daughter. Revealing an immense mutual trust and respect, it also offers an insight into the fascinating destiny of a highly singular woman who played a leading role in her father's career. Alongside the exhibition, a virtual reality experience created by Agnès Molia & Gordon (a Lucid Realities/TSVP production) is offered on the theme of dance, echoing \"La Danse\" by Matisse — a masterpiece from our collection. \"Danse Danse Danse – Matisse\" features an original choreography by Sarah Silverblatt-Buser, in which the viewer actively takes part. It is a tribute to the movement and vibrant colors so powerfully expressed in Matisse’s work — a journey through dance and painting, and an immersion into the artist’s creative universe, as you witness the making of some of his most iconic works, such as La Danse (I) (1909, The Museum of Modern Art, New York), La Danse de Merion (Barnes Foundation, Philadelphia), The Unfinished Dance, and The Dance of Paris (Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris)."}
{"i":38,"title":"Gabriele Münter: Painting to the point","raw":"The Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris is presenting the first retrospective in France devoted to the German artist Gabriele Münter (1877–1962). Cofounder of the Munich-based Blaue Reiter (Blue Rider) circle, Gabriele Münter was one of the most outstanding women exponents of German Expressionism. In a male-dominated art world she created an extremely personal and diverse body of work spanning six decades. Although her name is often associated with that of Kandinsky, her companion during her Munich years (1903-1914), Gabriele Münter never ceased to innovate, bringing astonishing modernity to a wide range of media and leaving a prolific body of work. Following its highly acclaimed series of retrospectives — Sonia Delaunay in 2014-2015, Paula Modersohn-Becker in 2016 and Anna-Eva Bergman in 2023 — MAM is continuing its policy of presenting major female figures in modern art with close ties to France's capital. Here visitors are invited to discover a modernist pioneer who began her career in Paris, where she exhibited for the first time in 1907 at the Salon des Indépendants. Through a selection of 150 works in a variety of media including painting, engraving, photography and embroidery, the exhibition provides a detailed chronological overview of Gabriele Münter's work, covering a career of more than 60 years and its importance for the history of 20thcentury art."}
{"i":39,"title":"Oliver Beer: « Reanimation Paintings: A Thousand Voices »","raw":"A two-stage project: 4 October 2024 – 12 January 2025 Chapter 1: Drawing and sound collection workshops 4 April – 13 July 2025 Chapter 2: Immersive exhibition of the films produced by Oliver Beer In the wake of the drawing and sound workshops held from October 2024 to January 2025 at the Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris, Oliver Beer will be exhibiting the four films from his A Thousand Voices project – part of the Reanimation Paintings series – from 4 April 2025. Along with the drawings making them up – created by over 3,000 children and teenagers – these films will become part of the museum's collection when the exhibition closes. Oliver Beer created A Thousand Voices following an invitation from the MAM to respond to its collection. Beer's choice of four works from the museum's collection – Stéréofigure by Victor Brauner, Sylvie (grosse tête) by Nina Childress, Rythme by Sonia Delaunay, and Buste de chanteuse de face by Georges Rouault – reflects their link to music, the common thread running through his work. Continuing his Reanimation Paintings series, the artist invited children to reinterpret these works through drawing and sound. This totally novel project began with a sound and visual collection phase in two studios designed by Oliver Beer in the permanent collection rooms of the Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris between October 2024 and January 2025."}
{"i":40,"title":"Pierre Bonnard: Bonnard at Le Cannet","raw":"In an unprecedented collaboration with the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris is, for the first time, exhibiting the important Paysage au Cannet (Landscape at Le Cannet) by Pierre Bonnard alongside the artist's portrait by Édouard Vuillard, acquired by the City of Paris in 1937. These two works owe their connection to the attentive eye of Vuillard, who chose to depict his friend beside the Paysage au Cannet in a remarkable mise en abyme painting. While Bonnard himself is clearly recognisable, the representation of his painting in this portrait acts as a powerful artistic signature. Vuillard paid tribute to his friend by skillfully depicting the Paysage au Cannet in great detail, capturing the painter's colourful, sensitive touch. This exceptional presentation of the two artworks is accompanied by other paintings by Bonnard belonging to the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris, and a loan from the Centre Pompidou. Together, these paintings evoke the time Bonnard and his wife Marthe – who was the model for Nu dans le bain (Nude in the Bath) and Femme à sa toilette (Woman at Her Toilette) – lived at the villa “Le Bosquet” in Le Cannet. The house and surrounding garden became a limitless source of inspiration for the painter. Bonnard immortalises the view above the villa in Paysage au Cannet, while in L'Atelier au Mimosa, he invites us to contemplate the same landscape from the window of his studio, revealing another perspective of this beloved place. The abundant greenery around the house is also evident in Le Jardin (The Garden), where the vibrant colours of the different flowers and plants, combined with the depth of the canvas, invite us to follow in the artist's footsteps."}
{"i":41,"title":"Josephsohn: as seen by Albert Oehlen","raw":"For this first retrospective in France devoted to Swiss sculptor Hans Josephsohn (1920–2012), the Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris has entrusted the curatorship to artist Albert Oehlen, who offers a free-wheeling exploration of the artist's work. Born in 1954, Albert Oehlen is a major artist and contributor to the revival of German painting in the 1980s. An exhibition of his work was held at the Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris in 2009. A great admirer of Hans Josephsohn, Oehlen discovered his work at the Kesselhaus Josephsohn in St Gallen, in Switzerland, where he lives. Both an exhibition and conservation venue dedicated to the sculptor's work, the Kesselhaus which have provided most of the sculptures loaned for this exhibition. Out of his examination of Josephsohn's creative process – interaction with materials, the role of gesture, detail and tireless research – and its resonance with his own explorations, Oehlen draws a spirited experience of the oeuvre. Hans Josephsohn's work fascinates other artists with the sheer power of its visual language. Peter Fischli and David Weiss were among his early supporters, and in 2007 Ugo Rondinone included several of his reclining nudes in his exhibition The Third Mind, at the Palais de Tokyo. Artist biography : The intensity of Josephsohn's work is rooted in a life tormented by history, and a vocation that would lock him into his studio for over sixty years. Born in 1920 in Königsberg (then part of the German province of East Prussia, now Kaliningrad in Russia), Hans Josephsohn grew up in a Jewish family in the 1930s. His firsthand experience of the rise of Nazism and its attendant persecutions was a trauma that marked him for life. Attracted to sculpture from an early age, he was denied access to art school because of his origin. In 1938 he obtained a scholarship to study art in Florence, but in the autumn of that year the promulgation of Italy's racial laws forced him to flee in short order. Arriving in Switzerland, Josephsohn set"}
{"i":42,"title":"The Atomic age: Artists put to the test of history","raw":"The Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris is inviting visitors to take a new look at the history of modernity in the 20th century via the imaginary world of the atom. The exhibition is an opportunity to explore the artistic representations sparked by the scientific discovery of the atom and its applications, in particular the nuclear bomb, whose devastating consequences changed the fate of humanity. Bringing together some 250 works – paintings, drawings, photographs, videos and installations – as well as documentation that has often been previously unpublished, the exhibition shows, for the first time in a French museum, the widely differing different stances adopted by artists in the face of scientific advances and the controversies they have given rise to. Dealing with a subject now more topical than ever, the exhibition is in keeping with the museum's desire to reflect contemporary cultural and social concerns in its programming. 1- The disintegration of matter : At the dawn of the twentieth century, scientific discoveries regarding the composition of the atom and the radioactivity it emanated radically changed the relationship to matter underpinning art's representations of reality. Matter was henceforth understood as energy, making it possible to imagine an art liberated from gravity and from the opacity of nature as it appeared to us. Two approaches emerged: the mystical abstraction sought by Vassily Kandinsky and Hilma af Klint on the one hand, and the conceptual art of Marcel Duchamp, inspired by infra-sensible phenomena, on the other. 2- The bomb : The invention of the atomic bomb and its devastating use against Japan by the United States in August 1945 marked a tipping point in the modern history of the atom, ushering in a new \"Atomic Age\". Artists in the West offered a wide range of interpretations: some opted for aesthetic neutrality and a fascination with the unknown worlds revealed by physics, others criticised the \"spectacularisation\" of nuclear explosions, an"}
{"i":43,"title":"Oliver Beer: « Reanimation Paintings : A Thousand Voices»","raw":"4 October 2024 - 12 January 2025 Chapter 1: Drawing and sound collection workshops 4 April - 13 July 2025 Chapter 2: Exhibition of Reanimation films produced by Oliver Beer The A Thousand Voices project will start with a sound and drawing collection phase that will take place in two studios designed by Oliver Beer in the Museum of Modern Art’s permanent collection rooms from October 2024 to January 2025. This rich material will be made up of drawings and sound recordings created by the young participants. Oliver Beer has chosen four works from MAM’s collections (Victor Brauner, Nina Childress, Sonia Delaunay and Georges Rouault) that will be reinterpreted in four films directed by the artist at the end of the project. Music, as the common thread running through the artist’s work, guided the selection of these masterpieces from the museum. Every child – whether accompanied by their class (from the end of nursery school to the last year of high school) or visiting individually – will be invited to reinterpret and take ownership of one of the museum’s four works, through a drawing exercise. The drawings from the workshop will then be assembled and printed on film, at 12 frames per second, to create four animated films. Similarly, the sounds recorded by the children will form the main material for a new immersive composition that will accompany the films. All the children, their schools, and all MAM’s visitors will be able to discover these films at the exhibition organised at the museum in spring 2025. A participatory experience This participatory experience, involving pupils from nursery school to high school, aims to create a new relationship between the public and MAM’s collections. The artist and museum are seeking to provide children with a genuine opportunity to reinterpret works and see their creations join the museum’s collections. “Each child contributes a unique drawing that responds to one of the works on display at the Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris, transfor"}
{"i":44,"title":"Arab Presences: Modern Art and Decolonisation: Paris 1908-1988","raw":"The Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris is inviting visitors to rediscover the diversity of 20th-century Arab modernism and to take a fresh look at the history of art scenes still little known in Europe. Through a selection of over 200 works, most of whichhave never before been exhibited in France, the exhibition Modern Art and Decolonization: Paris 1908 – 1988 focuses on the relationship between Arab artists and Paris throughout the 20th century. The exhibition explores a different history of modern art, illuminated by a wealth ofhistorical audio and visual archive material. Organised chronologically, it begins in 1908, the year in which the Lebanese poet and artist Gibran Khalil Gibran arrived in Paris and the opening of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Cairo. The period ended in 1988, with the first exhibition devoted to contemporary Arab artists at the Institut du Monde Arabe (officially opened a few months earlier) in Paris and with the exhibition Singuliers: bruts ou naïfs, featuring among others Moroccan artist Chaïbia Tallal and Tunisian artist Jaber Al-Mahjoub, at the Musée d'Art Moderne in Paris. As art historian Silvia Naef writes in the catalogue for the Arab Presences exhibition at the MAM, \"How can we create a modern Arab art? A real aesthetic project was set up in the course of the 20th century, one that broke away from academic art, echoed the Western avant-gardes and was conceived within the framework of a specific national identity, without returning to an Islamic art form.\" The exhibition foregrounds over 130 rarely shown artists whose works make an essential contribution to the Arab avant-garde and the history of modern art in the 20th century. It also highlights the essential role played by Paris. Described as the \"capital of the Third World\" by the historian Michael Goebel, the city was seen from the 1920s onwards as a breeding ground for anti-colonial networks and the home of the new cosmopolitan modernities. The exhibition is structured around the differ"}
{"i":45,"title":"Carte blanche for Ari Marcopoulos: Beware","raw":"The Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris is giving carte blanche to artist Ari Marcopoulos,a photographer and filmmaker emblematic of the New York underground, dedicated to offer a fresh view on the world of skateboarding. For the first time at the Museum, his work Brown Bag is being presented in a special installation. In the same way that he looks at his subjects from both an insider's and an artist’s perspective, Ari Marcopoulos is also proposing a fresh reading of certain works in the MAM collections, through the filter of the counter-cultures he is so familiar with. In addition to its role on the modern and contemporary art scene, the Palais de Tokyo site – and its esplanade in particular – is also a world skateboarding centre. From the 1990s onwards, its distinctive architecture and ground surface rapidly made the area known as the \"Dôme\" a hot spot for local and then international skateboarders. The Musée d'Art Moderne de Paris wanted to pay tribute to an activity that has become a feature of its everyday existence and is being promoted as part of the Paris 2024 Olympic Games. After making its debut as a \"new sport\" at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021, skateboarding is now one of the four additional sports in the events scheduled for Paris this summer. To mark the occasion, the Musée has given carte blanche to the artist Ari Marcopoulos, known for his work on youth culture including and beyond skateboarding. In 2021, the museum acquired his film Brown Bag (1994/2020), featuring shots of skateboarders filmed by the artist in mid-1990s New York and now being shown for the first time. The screening will be accompanied by a rereading of the Musée d'Art Moderne collection through a selection of works that Marcopoulos compares with his own photographs. His portraits – visual embodiments of the different points of view he proposes in relation to the works in the museum – interact with contributions from artists including Hans Bellmer, Brassaï, Giorgio de Chirico, César, Isa Genzk"}
{"i":46,"title":"Jean Hélion: The Prose of the World","raw":"The Musée d’Art Moderne de Paris is presenting a retrospective of the painter and intellectual Jean Hélion (1904–1987), whose oeuvre spans the whole of the 20th century. Hélion was one of the pioneers of abstraction, which he brought to America in the 1930s before moving on to a personal form of figuration just prior to the Second World War. Born in Normandy in 1904, Hélion initially opted for architectural studies in Paris. After a brief spell as a painter in Montmartre in 1929, he joined Théo van Doesburg and Piet Mondrian in a move towards geometric abstraction. A member of the Art Concret group, he also helped found the Abstraction-Création collective, home to the leading abstractionists of the interwar period. A friend of Calder, Arp and Giacometti, he was also close to Max Ernst, Marcel Duchamp and Victor Brauner. In 1929 he began his series of Notebooks, reflections on painting that he kept up until 1984. He was also close to the writers of his time: Francis Ponge, Raymond Queneau, René Char, André du Bouchet and others, who remained part of his artistic vocation. In 1934 Hélion moved to the United States, where he became friends with Duchamp and one of the country's foremost abstractionists. A leading figure on the American art scene, he also served as an advisor to America's most eminent collectors."}
{"i":56,"title":"Art Now: Steph Huang","raw":"A new installation of sculptures, film and sound, trace the relationship between the food and land Steph Huang uses techniques such as glass blowing, casting, film and sound to present a new installation of work. Inspired by her investigations into mass production and the history of the food industry, Huang creates poetic installations which question the effects that consumer culture has on our environment. The display will feature a brand-new film exploring scallop diving off the coast of Devon. It also features everyday objects transformed into sculptures that refer to both personal and collective memories. Steph Huang (b.1990, Taiwan) lives and works in London. She received her MA in Sculpture from Royal College of Art in 2021. Recent solo exhibitions include There Is Nothing Old Under The Sun, Standpoint London, UK, 2024; The Water that Bears the Boat, E-WERK Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany, 2024; I will see you when the week ends, Public Gallery, London, UK, 2023; Taipei Art Awards, Taipei Fine Arts Museum, Taipei, Taiwan, 2022; Deep Shallow, Volt, Eastbourne, UK, 2022; A Great Increase In Business Is On Its Way, Goldsmiths CCA, London, UK, 2022. In 2023, Huang was awarded the Mark Tanner Sculpture Award and was a recipient of The Henry Moore Foundation Artist Award. In 2022, Huang was awarded the Grand Prize at the Taipei Art Awards."}
{"i":57,"title":"Lee Miller","raw":"A major exhibition of the trailblazing surrealist photographer Lee Miller With the most extensive retrospective of her photography yet staged in the UK, Tate Britain celebrates Lee Miller as one of the 20th century's most urgent artistic voices. First exposed to a camera by working in front of it, Miller was one of the most sought-after models of the late 1920s. She quickly stepped behind the lens, becoming a leading figure in the avant-garde scenes in New York, Paris, London and Cairo. The exhibition will showcase Miller’s extraordinary career, from her participation in French surrealism to her fashion and war photography. Exploring her artistic collaborations, the exhibition will also shed light on lesser-known sides of her practice, such as her remarkable images of the Egyptian landscape in the 1930s."}
{"i":58,"title":"Sargent and Fashion","raw":"Fashion, identity, painting: explore the unique work of John Singer Sargent Celebrated for his striking portrait paintings, this exhibition sheds new light on John Singer Sargent’s acclaimed works. It explores how he worked like a stylist to craft the image of the sitters he painted, who he often had close relationships with. Sargent used fashion as a powerful tool to express identity and personality. He regularly chose the outfits of his collaborators or manipulated their clothing. This innovative use of costume was central to his artwork – for example, tugging a heavy coat tighter around a man to emphasise his figure or letting a dress strap sensuously slip from a woman’s shoulder. It was these daring sartorial choices that allowed him to express his vision as an artist. Almost 60 of Sargent’s paintings will be on display, including major portraits that rarely travel. Several period garments will also be showcased alongside the portraits they were worn in. The show examines how this remarkable painter used fashion to create portraits of the time, which still captivate today."}
{"i":59,"title":"Now You See Us: Women Artists in Britain 1520–1920","raw":"Discover the artists who forged a path for generations to come Spanning 400 years, this exhibition follows women on their journeys to becoming professional artists. From Tudor times to the First World War, artists such as Mary Beale, Angelica Kauffman, Elizabeth Butler and Laura Knight paved a new artistic path for generations of women. They challenged what it meant to be a working woman of the time by going against society’s expectations – having commercial careers as artists and taking part in public exhibitions. Including over 150 works, the show dismantles stereotypes surrounding women artists in history, who were often thought of as amateurs. Determined to succeed and refusing to be boxed in, they daringly painted what were usually thought to be subjects for male artists: history pieces, battle scenes and the nude. The exhibition sheds light on how these artists championed equal access to art training and academy membership, breaking boundaries and overcoming many obstacles to establish what it meant to be a woman in the art world."}
{"i":60,"title":"Tate Britain Commission: Alvaro Barrington: Grace","raw":"Be transported to the evocative, vibrant world of artist Alvaro Barrington in a major new installation at Tate Britain. Barrington's personal exploration of identity and belonging is a journey in three parts honouring his grandmother, sister and mother. He draws from personal memories across time and place, from his grandmother's Caribbean home where a thunderstorm hammers on the corrugated tin roof, to the exhilarating energy of Carnival. Tate Britain's Duveen Galleries are transformed into a space alive with sound, colour and texture. This is Barrington’s poignant celebration of the people and places that make us feel we belong."}
{"i":61,"title":"Turner Prize 2024","raw":"Explore the best of British art today from vibrant drawings to intriguing installations Pio Abad, Claudette Johnson, Jasleen Kaur and Delaine Le Bas are the four artists shortlisted for the 2024 Turner Prize. They will showcase their eclectic work at Tate Britain from 25 September 2024, with the winner announced on 3 December 2024. Named after the radical painter JMW Turner, the Turner Prize was first awarded in 1984. Each year, it is given to a British artist who has created an outstanding exhibition or other presentation of their work. Pio Abad’s art explores cultural loss and colonial histories, often reflecting on his upbringing in the Philippines. Featuring drawings, etchings and sculptures that depict and transform artifacts from British museums, Abad sheds light on their overlooked histories and connects them to our lives today. He was nominated for his solo exhibition To Those Sitting in Darkness at the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford."}
{"i":62,"title":"The 80s: Photographing Britain","raw":"Explore powerful photography in a decade of social and political change Explore one of the UK’s most critical decades, the 1980s. This exhibition traces the work of a diverse community of photographers, collectives and publications –creating radical responses to the turbulent Thatcher years. Set against the backdrop of race uprisings, the miner strikes, section 28, the AIDS pandemic and gentrification – be inspired by stories of protest and change. At the time, photography was used as a tool for social change, political activism, and artistic and photographic experiments. See powerful images that gave voice and visibility to underrepresented groups in society. This includes work depicting the Black arts movement, queer experience, South Asian diaspora and the representation of women in photography. This exhibition examines how photography collectives and publications highlighted these often-unseen stories, featured in innovative photography journals such as Ten 8 and Cameraworks. It will also look at the development of Autograph ABP, Half Moon Photography Workshop, and Hackney Flashers."}
{"i":63,"title":"Art Now: Hylozoic/Desires","raw":"Artist duo Hylozoic/Desires (Himali Singh Soin & David Soin Tappeser) excavate the lost archive of the Inland Customs Line The line stretched 4,000km, of which 2,500km was a planted hedge grown by the British Empire in the Indian subcontinent between 1840 and 1880. It separated the British-occupied Bengal Presidency from independent states to prevent smuggling and enforce the British monopoly on salt. In this new moving image installation, Hylozoic/Desires bring together historical records with speculative imaginings to penetrate the porosity of this barrier. Art Now: Hylozoic/Desires is supported by the Bukhman Foundation."}
{"i":64,"title":"Ed Atkins","raw":"A major new exhibition by one of the most influential British artists working today Ed Atkins is best known for his computer-generated videos and animations. Repurposing contemporary technologies in unexpected ways, his work traces the dwindling gap between the digital world and human feeling. He borrows techniques from literature, cinema, video games, music and theatre to examine the relationship between reality, realism and fiction. This career-spanning exhibition features moving image works from the last 15 years alongside writing, paintings, embroideries and drawings. Together, they pit a weightless digital life against the physical world of heft, craft and touch. Atkins uses his own experiences, feelings and body as models to explore themes of intimacy, love and loss. For Atkins, the exhibition represents a reimagining of the messy, unravelling realities of life. 'My life and my work are inextricable. How do I convey the life-ness that made these works – my life-ness – through the exhibition? Not in some factual, chronological, biographical way, but through sensations. I want it so the more you see, the richer, more complex, less authored, less gettable things become.'"}
{"i":65,"title":"Edward Burra","raw":"Edward Burra is one of the most distinctive British artists of the 20th century, renowned for his vibrant, satirical scenes of the urban underworld and queer culture during the ‘Roaring Twenties.’ A master of watercolour painting, the exhibition shows how Burra pushed the boundaries of the traditionally delicate medium to create bold and vivid scenes. His practice is influenced by everything from music and performance to popular culture, literature, and art history. The first retrospective in London in 40 years, it will showcase Burra’s interest in experiencing society and culture abroad. A keen social documentarian, his scenes also include macabre landscapes that reflect his experience of world events, including the Spanish Civil War and Second World War. Burra’s lived experience of disability influenced his artistic practice and may have informed his portrayal of marginalised communities. Discover an in-depth view of Burra’s career with over 80 paintings and drawings along with material from the Edward Burra archive at Tate, providing visitors an insight into the artist’s creative process. Find out more about the Edward Burra exhibition with our exhibition guide."}
{"i":66,"title":"Ithell Colquhoun","raw":"One of the most radical artists of her generation, Ithell Colquhoun was an important figure in British Surrealism during the 1930s and 1940s. An innovative writer and practicing occultist, Colquhoun charted her own course, investigating surrealist methods of unconscious picture-making and fearlessly delving into the realms of myth and magic. This landmark exhibition of over 140 artworks and archival materials traces Colquhoun’s evolution, from her early student work and engagement with the surrealist movement, to her fascination with the intertwining realms of art, sexual identity, ecology and occultism. It culminates in a room dedicated to Colquhoun’s interpretation of the Taro deck – her most accomplished fusion of her artistic and magical practice. Explore Colquhoun’s enthralling, multi-layered universe through writings, drawings, paintings, many of which have never been shown publicly before. The exhibition debuted at Tate St Ives in February 2025 before arriving at Tate Britain."}
{"i":67,"title":"Art Now: Onyeka Igwe","raw":"A new body of work consisting of film, projected slides and sculpture, brought together to tell the story of the University of Ibadan Onyeka Igwe’s Art Now display, our generous mother, explores the University of Ibadan, the oldest degree-awarding institution in Nigeria. Moving through the university’s tropical modernist architecture, the film traces the building’s personal and political histories, from its colonial roots through to national independence, civil war and towards the present day. Visitors will enter a dark green space which hosts the film in multiple guises. It first takes the form of a Perspex sculpture that fractures the content, alluding to the multiple ways one place can be understood. Towards the middle of the space, the work takes the form of a slide projection. At the back of the gallery, the film then concludes in digital form, projected upon a large cinematic wall. Across all these different iterations of her work, Igwe draws from her own interest in radical filmmaking to deconstruct the history of the University of Ibadan."}
{"i":68,"title":"Turner & Constable: Rivals & Originals","raw":"The definitive exhibition of two pivotal British artists in the 250th year of their births Two of Britain’s greatest painters, J.M.W. Turner and John Constable were also the greatest of rivals. Born within a year of each other – Turner in 1775, Constable in 1776 – the art critics of the day compared their paintings to a clash of ‘fire and water’. Raised in the gritty heart of Georgian London, Turner quickly became a young star of the art world despite his humble beginnings. Meanwhile Constable, the son of a wealthy Suffolk merchant, was equally determined to forge his own path as an artist but faced a longer, more arduous rise to acclaim. Though from different worlds, both artists were united in their desire to transform landscape painting for the better. With the two painters vying for success through very different but equally bold approaches, the scene was soon set for a heady rivalry within the competitive world of landscape art. Turner painted blazing sunsets and sublime scenes from his travels, while Constable often returned to depictions of a handful of beloved places, striving for freshness and authenticity in his portrayal of nature."}
{"i":69,"title":"Hurvin Anderson","raw":"Experience the intensely colourful work of British artist Hurvin Anderson Hurvin Anderson’s first major solo show brings together more than 80 of his vibrant paintings, spanning the artist’s entire career, from his days as a student to new, never-before-seen paintings. Through colour-drenched landscapes and interiors, Anderson meanders back and forth across the Atlantic, between the UK and the Caribbean. The youngest of eight children, he was the first to be born in the UK after his family left Jamaica for Birmingham in the 1960s. As a result, Anderson’s work reflects on his experiences of belonging and diaspora. His works often feature family members, experiences from his youth and places of individual and cultural significance like the barbershop. By revisiting elements and sometimes layering one location onto another, he engages with the unreliability of memory and tension around cultural heritage."}