=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

56 example pairs (raw curatorial text → her approved summary)

── [met] Musical Bodies
   RAW: From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, an
   →    Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection.

── [met] Costume Art
   RAW: The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other co
   →    Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries.

── [met] Giacometti in the Temple of Dendur
   RAW: In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the 
   →    Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple.

── [met] Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy
   RAW: The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated trave
   →    Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa.

── [met] Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met
   RAW: Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Ren
   →    Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop.

── [met] Revolution!
   RAW: This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-
   →    Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval.

── [met] Ecologies of Painting
   RAW: This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outsi
   →    Painting through landscape, environment and material relations.

── [met] Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew
   RAW: Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotatio
   →    Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects.

── [met] The Infinite Artistry of Japanese Ceramics
   RAW: From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s e
   →    Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form.

── [met] Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt
   RAW: Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302)
   →    Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries.

── [met] Celebrating the Year of the Horse
   RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain trai
   →    Asian works for the lunar new year.

── [met] A King’s Carpet: Louis XIV and the Savonnerie
   RAW: In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter
   →    Savonnerie carpets and French court display.

── [met] Chasing Clouds
   RAW: Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography
   →    Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography.

── [met] David Hartt: Peripheries
   RAW: Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in t
   →    Architecture, migration and the edges of cities.

── [met] There Are No Words: Si Lewen’s Parade
   RAW: The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the 
   →    Wordless picture sequence on war.

── [met] Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous
   RAW: Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as centra
   →    Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence.

── [met] Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond
   RAW: Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolv
   →    Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar.

── [met] Raphael: Sublime Poetry
   RAW: Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years
   →    First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael.

── [met] The Magical City: George Morrison’s New York
   RAW: Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, w
   →    Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work.

── [met] Fanmania
   RAW: The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also a
   →    Folding fans as fashion and display.

── [met] Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family
   RAW: Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), an
   →    Watercolours by Sargent's sister.

── [met] The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close
   RAW: Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-
   →    Bridge construction in drawings and prints.

── [met] Man Ray: When Objects Dream
   RAW: American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned rec
   →    Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism.

── [met] Celebrating the Year of the Snake
   RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram,
   →    Asian works featuring the snake.

── [met] Casa Susanna
   RAW: Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to cre
   →    1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs.

── [met] Divine Egypt
   RAW: In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 g
   →    Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities.

── [met] Ganesha: Lord of New Beginnings
   RAW: Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome 
   →    Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art.

── [ng] Zurbarán
   RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. F
   →    First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

── [ng] Monet and Renoir: Painting Side by Side
   RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in n
   →    Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

── [ng] Waldmüller: Landscapes
   RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at
   →    First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

── [ng] Take One Picture 2026
   RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas a
   →    Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

── [ng] Renoir and Love
   RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how
   →    Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

── [ng] Van Eyck: The Portraits
   RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine o
   →    All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

── [ng] German Expressionism
   RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling ag
   →    Fifty German Expressionist works.

── [ng] Stubbs: Portrait of a Horse
   RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s
   →    George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

── [ng] Wright of Derby: From the Shadows
   RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instrumen
   →    Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

── [ng] Millet: Life on the Land
   RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, 
   →    The subjects that made Millet famous.

── [ng] Take One Picture 2025
   RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardb
   →    Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

── [ng] José María Velasco
   RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico
   →    Mexico's landscape painter.

── [ng] Van Gogh: Poets and Lovers
   RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the glo
   →    Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

── [ng] NG Stories: Making a National Gallery
   RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who
   →    Two hundred years of Gallery history.

── [ng] Hockney and Piero: A Longer Look
   RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father a
   →    Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

── [rijks] Ed van der Elsken. Up Close
   RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see th
   →    Unfiltered street energy across decades.

── [rijks] Fiep Westendorp
   RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations 
   →    150 original drawings by the illustrator.

── [rijks] Carel Visser in the Rijksmuseum Gardens
   RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' 
   →    Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

── [rijks] WORN
   RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
   →    Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

── [rijks] Willem de Kooning at work
   RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honou
   →    120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

── [rijks] Document Netherlands: New Energy
   RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, 
   →    Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

── [rijks] Metamorphoses
   RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
   →    Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

── [rijks] Fake!
   RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
   →    Early photocollages and photomontages.

── [rijks] Occupied City
   RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
   →    Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

── [rijks] At Home in the 17th Century
   RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
   →    Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

── [rijks] Crossings
   RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
   →    Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

── [rijks] Fiona Tan: Monomania
   RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
   →    The artist's view on the collection.

── [rijks] Asian Bronze
   RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
   →    Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

── [rijks] Festival Frenzy
   RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
   →    Dutch festivals photographed.



=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i": 234, "title": "The Witch by Salvator Rosa displayed in Pitti Palace", "raw": "The Witch by the tormented and original 17th-century painter Salvator Rosa, becomes part of the Uffizi collection. Soon it will be welcomed in the Gallery, in the rooms of the 17th-century masters; however, immediately after the Christmas holidays, it will have its own special exhibition moment in the White Hall of the Pitti Palace."}
{"i": 235, "title": "Stanislao Pointeau. A Tuscan \"macchiaiolo\"of French descent. An exhibition dedicated to Prof. Carlo Del Bravo", "raw": "Terre degli Uffizi returns to San Casciano with a monographic exhibition devoted, for the very first time, to the Franco-Florentine painter Stanislao Pointeau and to the role he played in the birth and development of the Macchiaolo style in Florence and in Tuscany. The exhibition at the Museo Giuliano Ghelli, due to run from 26 October to 16 February, is entitled “Stanislao Pointeau – A Tuscan Macchiaiolo of French Descent”. The exhibition is curated by Michele Amedei and organised by the Comune di San Casciano in Val di Pesa as part of the Fondazione CR Firenze and Gallerie degli Uffizi exhibition programme, in the context of their respective Piccoli Grandi Musei and Uffizi Diffusi schemes. After the exhibition devoted to Jacopo Vignali, this is once again a tribute to Carlo del Bravo, the diligent art historian from San Casciano whose research in the late 1970s led to Stanislao Pointeau’s rediscovery. Stanislao was born in Florence to Jean Louis Pointeau, a wine salesman from Blois in the Loire Valley, and his Florentine wife Giovanna Piacenti. He enrolled at the local Academy of Fine Arts in the early 1850s, but while studying there, he also frequented the Caffè Michelangiolo where he, Telemaco Signorini and other artists founded the Macchiaioli group. In their company, he not only rubbed shoulders with the French community in the city but also explored Florence and its surroundings. He focused in particular on the banks of the Arno, which were to become the source of inspiration for his Renaioli d’Arno (Arno Sand-dredgers), a painting that attracted praise when it was shown at the Italian National Exhibition held in Florence in 1861. After his Macchiaiolo period, Pointeau moved to Pisa in 1867, where he was isolated from his Florentine friends but he managed to stay in touch with them, and with Diego Martelli in particular, all the same. The final phase in his artistic career was influenced by the Symbolist climate represented, in the Pisa area, by a community o"}
{"i": 236, "title": "Tuscan Tournaments. The Saracen Joust, the Crossbow Palio and the Game of the Bridge", "raw": "The Casa Museo dell’Antiquariato Ivan Bruschi in Arezzo, part of the Intesa Sanpaolo portfolio, is hosting an exhibition until 12 January 2025 entitled “Tuscan Tournaments: The Saracen Joust, the Crossbow Palio and the Game of the Bridge” curated by Museo Stibbert Curator of Armouries Riccardo Franci. The exhibition is part of the Lands of the Uffizi project devised and produced by the Gallerie degli Uffizi and the Fondazione CR Firenze in the context of their respective Uffizi Diffusi and Piccoli Grandi Musei schemes. Starting with the Saracen Joust, a popular event celebrated in the city of Arezzo, the exhibition sets out to document war games using prints and paintings of various periods from the Gallerie degli Uffizi and, above all, numerous examples of helmets, weapons and armour from the Museo Stibbert’s famous collection. These knightly contests, which became fashionable in the Middle Ages and survived well into the Renaissance, included the Crossbow Palio, where precision was the skill required of contestants, and the ancient Game of the Bridge, a trial of strength on foot to conquer the Old Bridge in Pisa. Visitors are greeted by the most iconic exhibit in the show, a 16th century Buratto or Saracen quintain on loan from the Museo Nazionale del Bargello. Likely to have been made for celebrations held to mark the marriage of Francesco I and Bianca Cappello in 1579, alterations over the centuries have transformed it from a Saracen noble into the European warrior we see today. The exhibition logo is another prestigious work of art, Stefano Della Bella’s Knight in Armour made for a parade, on loan from the Gallerie degli Uffizi. The rich, sumptuous attire and caparison conjure up an image of the sheer splendour that attended these spectacular events designed to celebrate the great and good. In another painting, on loan from the Fondazione CR Firenze, Stefano Della Bella illustrated one such event, a nighttime parade in the Boboli Garden in 1637. Arms and armour"}
{"i": 237, "title": "Carlo Maria Mariani. Arte oltre il tempo", "raw": "\"Carlo Maria Mariani. Arte beyond time\" is the title of the exhibition hosted in the Andito degli Angiolini in Palazzo Pitti untill the 1st of December 2024. The exhibition consists of sixteen works by the Italian painter and internationally recognized contemporary master, who passed away in 2021 at the age of 90 in New York, and is curated by Clayton Calvert, executive director of The Carlo Maria Mariani and Carol Lane Mariani Foundation of New York and the art critic Vittorio Sgarbi. The exhibition covers a time span of over 50 years of the artist's production from 1968 to 2019 and includes contributions from the Foundation that bears his name, from the MART of Trento and Rovereto, from the Achille Forti Modern Art Gallery Collection of Verona, from Museo del Novecento in Milan and from the Antonio Martino Collection in Rome. “It is integral and implacable, positioning itself between Canova and Winkelmann, the return in Carlo Maria Mariani, the nostos: it is no longer a return to order, it is the recomposition of a lost world, an anastylosis in painting – states Vittorio Sgarbi. Mariani goes beyond David and concedes nothing to the present. His neoclassicism is reconstructed in the light of Surrealism, in a continuous projection of the dream [...]. His neoclassicism is not ideological, it is sentimental, it is Italy seen by a traveler who comes from afar, in his case who goes away to see it again\"."}
{"i": 238, "title": "Self-portraits on paper by 19th-century Masters", "raw": "In the rooms frescoed by Luigi Ademollo on the first floor of the Uffizi, self-portraits on paper by great Masters from the Department of Prints and Drawings' collections undergo a new rotation. The new arrangements is dedicated to the nineteenth century, a century in which self-awareness and the urgency to spread one's effigy became stronger among artists, who therefore used all the means, especially drawing and engraving. The exhibition takes account of the different techniques and forms of self-representation, examining the artists who taught at the Academy of Florence or attended it - such as Baldassarre Calamai, who in 1844 portrayed himself in a pencil sketch, or more controversial characters - such as the counterfeiter Egisto Rossi, here represented with three drawings. Among the most significant self-portraits drawn at the end of the century, undoubtedly worth mentioning are the two carried out by the Florentine sculptor Adriano Cecioni (pen) and by the Ticino painter Antonio Ciseri (pencil), who moved to Florence at a very young age. In art prints, the 19th century is represented by three great names: Domenico Morelli, with a recently purchased rare engraving executed during his stay in Florence in 1852 on view next to another unpublished version of the same subject; Federico Faruffini, with his singular and tormented self-portrait; and Giovanni Fattori, who closes the century with his famous etching on zinc here on display with the print and the engraved matrix. Finally, a tribute to a character who played a significant role in the history and formation of the Uffizi collection of works on paper: Anthony De Witt, whose self-portrait dating back to 1897 is exhibited in a captivating etching corrected with black pencil."}
{"i": 239, "title": "Self-portraits on paper by 18th- and early 19th-century masters", "raw": "On display on the first floor of the Uffizi are a series of drawings and prints by artists from the late 18th and early 19th centuries like Benedetto Vincenzo De Greyss (Livorno 1724-Venezia 1759), Raffaello Morghen and Luigi Sabatelli. Curated by Luisa Berretti, Laura Donati and Donatella Fratini, the selection of works is part of the rotating exhibition programme of works on paper from the Department of Prints and Drawings, which due to their fragile nature, and in order not to alter their state of preservation, can only be exhibited for short periods of time and under constant and monitored conditions of light, temperature and humidity. The collection of the Uffizi's Department of Prints and Drawings is one of the most important collections of graphic art in the world in terms of artistic value and number of works preserved (about 180,000 sheets). curated by Luisa Berretti, Laura Donati and Donatella Fratini"}
{"i": 240, "title": "Uffizi: on display two masterpieces damaged by the 1993 Georgofili mafia attack", "raw": "The exhibition is open from 26 May to 28 July 2024, on the ground floor of the Gallery, in a large room located at the beginning of the museum itinerary. Alongside, the projection of a video with the testimonies of the firefighters who provided first aid, and of the museum staff that on the very night of the attack hastened to limit the damages caused by the explosion. On the occasion of the 31st anniversary of the mafia bombing in Via dei Georgofili, two canvases by the Caravaggesque painter Bartolomeo Manfredi, which were damaged by the blast, are put on display."}
{"i": 241, "title": "Schiaparelli: Fashion Becomes Art", "raw": "The UK’s first exhibition on Elsa Schiaparelli spans the 1920s to today, celebrating the innovative designer's influence. It traces the fashion house’s groundbreaking origins and its evolution under current creative director Daniel Roseberry."}
{"i": 242, "title": "Rising Voices: Contemporary Art from Asia, Australia and the Pacific", "raw": "Rising Voices offers an unparalleled view of the Asia Pacific region’s dynamic creative landscape. Foregrounding First Nations perspectives and diverse artistic approaches, the exhibition features rare works by over 40 pioneering creatives."}
{"i": 243, "title": "Constantinople to Istanbul: One City, Two Empires", "raw": "A major UK-first exhibition exploring 1,600 years of extraordinary art and design, offering a compelling new perspective on a city defined by artistic excellence across more than a millennium."}
{"i": 244, "title": "Punk to Pop", "raw": "This exhibition explores how a generation of radical artists united by a punk DIY spirit respond to austerity and political turbulence, sparking a cultural change that dovetails with technology and the richness of a multicultural society."}
{"i": 245, "title": "Sculpture in Clay", "raw": "This exhibition will reveal how clay and ceramic have expanded the possibilities of sculpture, presenting clay as a potentially radical, avant-garde medium that allows artists to reinterpret, subvert, and challenge conventional ceramic practice."}
{"i": 246, "title": "Chintz", "raw": "Spanning four centuries of creativity, this exhibition re-discovers the story of chintz, a South Indian fabric created by hand-drawing designs on cotton – one of the most coveted, copied and contentious fabrics in history."}
{"i": 247, "title": "Grayson Perry: Delusions of Grandeur", "raw": "Explore the largest contemporary exhibition ever held at the museum. Grayson Perry: Delusions of Grandeur presented over 40 new works by Sir Grayson Perry (1960). In the largest contemporary exhibition ever held at the museum, visitors encountered ceramics, tapestries, and works on paper, displayed alongside masterpieces from the collection that had helped shape Perry’s vision for this landmark show. Delusions of Grandeur interrogated the very nature of craft-making and our drive for perfectionism. Intricate handcrafted objects sat alongside works made with digital technology – comparing an object that might take thousands of hours to create with one made in a click. Through these contrasting approaches, Perry invited viewers to contemplate questions of authenticity and the artist’s role in the future. As part of this exploration, Delusions of Grandeur focused on ‘outsider art,’ featuring works by Aloïse Corbaz and Madge Gill. Sparked by the discovery that Madge Gill (1882–1961) had exhibited at the Wallace Collection in 1942, the life and work of these outsider artists unlocked Perry’s own response, drawing upon his childhood experiences."}
{"i": 248, "title": "Swords of Lucknow", "raw": "Nearly a metre long and richly decorated with enamel and gold, these five swords revealed the splendour of eighteenth and nineteenth century Lucknow, a flourishing centre of power, artistry and cultural exchange. They reflected the court of the Nawabs of Awadh, rulers of Iranian Shia heritage who presided over a diverse population and fostered a culture of luxury and ceremony. Swords such as these signified prestige, loyalty and masculine identity, serving as status symbols as well as weapons, and were also exchanged as diplomatic gifts. Acquired by Sir Richard Wallace and the 4th Marquess of Hertford in the later nineteenth century, these swords also told a story of European collecting at a time when military officers and dealers brought South Asian arms to the market. This free display reinterpreted part of the museum's Asian, African and Ottoman collections, informed by new research for a catalogue published in February 2026."}
{"i": 249, "title": "Caravaggio's Cupid", "raw": "Victorious Cupid, on special loan from the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin and never-before-seen in public in the UK, was the centrepiece of this exhibition. It was presented with two ancient Roman sculptures that, more than four hundred years ago, belonged to the same distinguished collection. All three works belonged to Marchese Vincenzo Giustiniani (1564–1637), one of the most celebrated collectors of his day. In his grand palazzo near the Pantheon in Rome, Caravaggio's Cupid was displayed with other works by Raphael, Titian and Giorgione, as well as an extensive gallery of classical sculpture. Life-size and painted from nature, Cupid stands with wings spread, arrows in hand and with a playful smile, surrounded by the fallen symbols of human achievement. This free exhibition invited visitors to enter the world of 17th-century Rome, where artists, scholars and collectors debated the merits of painting and sculpture. The exhibition recreated the spirit of Giustiniani's palace, bringing together ancient sculpture and Caravaggio's startling vision in the way his guests would once have experienced it. Explore the exhibition further with our free audio guide, available on Bloomberg Connects."}
{"i": 250, "title": "Winston Churchill: The Painter", "raw": "Sir Winston Churchill (1874 – 1965) was one of the great statesmen of the twentieth century – the UK’s Prime Minister during the Second World War, and a Member of Parliament for 62 years. He was also a passionate and prolific painter. In painting, he found respite from public pressures, and a lifelong source of joy. The first major retrospective of Sir Winston Churchill’s paintings since his death, this exhibition brings together more than 50 of his works. More than half are from private collections, rarely accessible to the public. Happy are the painters, for they shall not be lonely. Light and colour, peace and hope, will keep them company to the end. Encounter sombre wartime scenes and radiant Mediterranean views, carefully composed still-lifes and portraits, luminous Moroccan cityscapes, and deeply personal paintings of Chartwell, Churchill’s beloved home and garden."}
{"i": 251, "title": "The Wallace Collection at War", "raw": "Learn more about the Wallace Collection at war in our free display. In 1942, with the museum's treasures evacuated for safety, Hertford House became an unlikely stage for cultural diplomacy. Two exhibitions transformed the empty galleries into a forum for Anglo-Soviet friendship at a critical moment in the conflict. Artists Aid Russia brought together over 900 works by living artists, from Augustus John to Jacob Epstein, with proceeds supporting Clementine Churchill's Red Cross Aid to Russia Fund. Twenty-Five Years of Progress, designed by Ernő Goldfinger, filled the galleries with bold photomontages and banners celebrating Soviet achievements and Allied unity. Launched by Soviet Ambassador Ivan Maisky and his wife Agniya, these exhibitions reveal how art, propaganda and architecture were mobilised to strengthen wartime alliances."}
{"i": 252, "title": "Metamorphoses: Porcelain Sculpture by Rachel Kneebone", "raw": "Discover Rachel Kneebone's striking sculptures in our free display. With the Wallace Collection's decorative interiors as her backdrop, acclaimed artist Rachel Kneebone places nine white porcelain sculptures throughout the galleries. Two of these sculptures, Bower and Temple, are created especially for the display and shown here for the first time. The Wallace Collection has long been a rich resource for me; a place of pleasure, delight and instruction. The works I am placing are responses to the Collection, to forge connections and contrasts within the space. This free display reveals how Kneebone's contemporary sculptures find unexpected kinship with the Collection's historic treasures. Finished with a clear gloss glaze, her surreal, tangled forms invite the viewer to tease out connections between her arresting white sculptures and the masterpieces of the museum."}
{"i": 253, "title": "Cosimo I de’ Medici: Art and Dynasty", "raw": "Discover Cosimo I de' Medici's world of art and power in our upcoming free display. Cosimo I de' Medici (1519-1574) rose from Duke of Florence to become the first Grand Duke of Tuscany, one of the most powerful rulers of Renaissance Italy. From a monumental wine cooler bearing his personal emblem to a ceremonial sword linking him to the mythical hero Hercules, the objects on display reveal how he built and sustained that power. This free display draws on the museum's collection to show how Cosimo used art to strengthen his authority, impress his court, and secure his family's legacy. For the display, the Wallace Collection's Portrait of Eleonora of Toledo has been newly conserved. Eleonora of Toledo (1522-1562) married Cosimo in 1539 and played an active role in government, as well as shaping the fashions and cultures of the Florentine court."}
{"i": 254, "title": "Marie-Antoinette: An Eye for Beauty", "raw": "Few figures fired the imagination quite like Marie-Antoinette (1755–1793). Born an archduchess at the glittering Austrian court, her destiny was decided by her marriage to the future Louis XVI of France. She soon attuned herself to the French vogue and the glamour of life at Versailles, while also cultivating a discerning eye for the beautiful. Once crowned queen, she used her almost limitless wealth and influence to commission interiors and artworks of unparalleled refinement, right up until the dawn of revolution. The Wallace Collection cared for some of the world's greatest works of art associated with the ill-fated queen. Visitors discovered a selection of these during a special two-month trail, which offered a tantalising glimpse into her sumptuous, lost world."}
{"i": 255, "title": "Keeping Time: Clocks by Boulle", "raw": "For the first time, the Wallace Collection brought together clocks by André-Charles Boulle (1642–1732), the most famous cabinetmaker to have worked for the court of the Sun King, Louis XIV. Five exceptional timepieces told the story of how Boulle took advantage of scientific discoveries to create unique clock designs in glittering baroque style, the influence of which spread across the world and centuries. The clocks were the work of many hands, involving leading artists and craftspeople from all over 18th-century Paris. Many of Boulle’s contemporaries also drew on the concept of time in their work. This theme was explored in a complementary display in the museum’s Billiard Room, which united two magnificent artworks: The Dance to the Music of Time by Nicolas Poussin (1594–1665) and The Borghese Dancers by Henri Perlan (1597–1656) and François Anguier (1604–1669)."}
{"i": 256, "title": "Flora Yukhnovich and François Boucher: The Language of the Rococo", "raw": "Flora Yukhnovich (1990), celebrated for her large-scale, semi-abstract oil paintings, gave the language of the Rococo new life. Two new paintings by the artist, made in response to two exceptional paintings by the celebrated 18th-century French painter François Boucher (1703-1770), occupied gilt frames at the top of our grand staircase. Boucher's paintings were displayed in our Housekeeper’s Room out of their frames, on white walls, like contemporary works of art. Theatrical and tongue-in-cheek, they were prime examples of the Rococo, a decorative and exuberant style favoured across the arts by royal and aristocratic patrons in France and elsewhere from the 1730s. Flora Yukhnovich and François Boucher: The Language of the Rococo prompted visitors to reconsider preconceptions, explore how we could connect with the Rococo today and examine the impact of display on art interpretation and historical re-evaluation. Dive deeper with our series of short films examining key themes that were featured in the display."}
{"i": 257, "title": "Ranjit Singh: Sikh, Warrior, King", "raw": "Our major exhibition, Ranjit Singh: Sikh, Warrior, King, explored the life of the great Sikh leader Ranjit Singh (1780–1839). With an unwavering sense of destiny, Ranjit Singh conquered the Punjab, an area that today encompasses Pakistan, following a period of anarchy caused by decades of Afghan invasions. By the early 19th century, he emerged as the undisputed Maharaja, establishing the influential Sikh Empire. Ranjit Singh's leadership led to a golden age marked by thriving trade, flourishing arts, and a formidable army. His story was shared through nearly 100 stunning artworks, including jewellery and weaponry from the Sikh Empire drawn from major private and public collections. The exhibition featured historic objects from his court, courtiers, and family, including items owned by the Maharaja and the most famous of his 30 wives, Maharani Jind Kaur. Ranjit Singh: Sikh, Warrior, King showcased our remarkable collection of Sikh arms and armour alongside other Sikh artworks for the first time."}
{"i": 321, "title": "A NEW LOOK AT CIMABUE", "raw": "For the first time, the Musée du Louvre is dedicating an exhibition to Cimabue, one of the most important artists of the 13th century. The exhibition is the product of two ‘Cimabue-centric’ events of great importance for the museum: the restoration of the Maestà and the acquisition of a heretofore-unseen Cimabue panel, rediscovered in France in 2019 and listed as a French National Treasure: Christ Mocked. These two paintings, whose restoration was completed in 2024, provide the starting point for this exhibition, which, by bringing together some forty works, aims to illuminate the extraordinary richness and undeniable innovation of Cimabue’s art. Cimabue was one of the first to open Western painting to naturalism, seeking to represent the world, objects and bodies as they truly existed. With him, the conventions of representation inherited from Eastern art, so highly valued until this period, gave way to an inventive art of painting seeking to evoke a three-dimensional space, bodies in volume shaped by subtle shading, articulated limbs, natural postures and human emotions. After an introductory section dedicated to the context of painting in Tuscany – and specifically Pisa – in the mid-13th century, a good deal of the visit focuses on the Louvre’s Maestà; innovations appearing in this painting have led certain art historians to consider it ‘the founding act of Western painting’. Restoration has made visible not only the variety and subtlety of its colours, but many details that had been masked by previous overpaintings, showing the fascination that the East, both Byzantine and Islamic, evoked in Cimabue and his patrons. The crucial question of the relationship between Cimabue and Duccio is then addressed. The visit continues with a section constructed around Cimabue’s eight-panel diptych, of which the Louvre has brought together for the first time the only three panels known today. The narrative vitality and liberty deployed by Cimabue in this work of shimmering col"}
{"i": 324, "title": "FIGURES OF THE FOOL", "raw": "The exhibition examines the omnipresence of fools in Western art and culture at the end of the Middle Ages, and attempts to parse the meaning of these figures, who would seem to play a key role in the advent of modernity. The fool may make us laugh, with his abundance of frivolous antics, but he also harbours a wealth of hidden facets of an erotic, scatological, tragic or violent nature. Capable of the best and of the worst, the fool entertains, warns or denounces; he turns societal values on their head and may even overthrow the established order. Within the newly renovated Hall Napoléon, this exhibition, which brings together over 300 works from 90 French, European and American institutions, brings us on a one-of-a-kind journey through Northern European art (English, Flemish, Germanic, and above all French), illuminating the profane aspects of the Middle Ages and revealing a fascinating era of surprising complexity. The exhibition explores the disappearance of the figure of the fool with the Enlightenment and the triumph of reason, and its resurgence at the end of the 18th century and all throughout the 19th. The fool then became a figure with which artists identified, wondering: ‘What if I were the fool?’ Élisabeth Antoine-König, Senior Curator in the Department of Decorative Arts, and Pierre-Yves Le Pogam, Senior Curator in the Department of Sculptures, Musée du Louvre the Cercle des Mécènes du Louvre, the Fondation Etrillard, the New York Medieval Society."}
{"i": 480, "title": "Mary Cassatt: After Impressionism", "raw": "“I began to think it would be great fun to do something I had never done before … I would not give up the idea for any thing.” —Cassatt on her decision to paint a monumental mural for the World’s Fair in Chicago, 1892 After training in Philadelphia in the early 1860s, Cassatt traveled to Europe largely on her own to study with noted teachers and experience the continent’s traditional and modern art firsthand. In 1877 she made the daring decision to join the French Impressionists—the only American to exhibit with them. It was in the years following the eighth and final Impressionist group show in 1886 that Cassatt produced some of her most innovative—and now celebrated—compositions. Marking the centennial of her death, Mary Cassatt: After Impressionism examines her paintings, pastels, and prints of this pivotal period when she took her art making in new directions. Learn everything you need to know about visiting Mary Cassatt: After Impressionism—from who needs a ticket to how to join the virtual line. In the prime years of her career—the late 1880s through the early 1900s—Cassatt pursued ambitious and experimental work, exploring the theme of mothers and caretakers with children, creating complex color prints, and undertaking an unprecedented mural commission for the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition in Chicago."}
{"i": 481, "title": "Willem de Kooning Drawing", "raw": "Willem de Kooning (1904–1997) was one of the most celebrated and prolific draftsmen of the 20th century. Willem de Kooning Drawing is the first exhibition to examine the expansive drawing practice of this renowned American artist who immigrated to New York from the Netherlands at the age of 22. While many Art Institute visitors may be familiar with de Kooning’s monumental painting Excavation (1950), a cornerstone of our collection, this exhibition marks the first solo presentation of the artist’s work at our museum since 1969. Learn everything you need to know about visiting Willem de Kooning Drawing—from who needs a ticket to how to listen to the audio tour. This major gathering of works from across the globe reveals how the act of drawing was foundational to de Kooning’s entire artistic process and production—his paintings, sculptures, and printmaking, as well as his drawings—and showcases the totality of his graphic production, from his earliest existing works to his late calligraphic paintings."}
{"i": 482, "title": "Lee Miller: Fearless", "raw": "“It was a matter of getting out on a damn limb and sawing it off behind you.” This memorable phrase is how Lee Miller—by turns a fashion model, magazine photographer, studio operator, Surrealist innovator, international adventurer, and battlefield correspondent—summed up her approach to life and creativity. Lee Miller: Fearless is the first comprehensive survey of her photographs in more than 25 years and gathers together the major episodes of her singular career. Miller was born in Poughkeepsie, New York, in 1907. Intrepid from the first, she moved to Paris at barely 20 years old, simultaneously seeking work in front of and behind the camera. She pioneered Surrealist techniques and broached daring sexual subjects with a readiness that magnetized experimental artists and fashion editors alike. Miller excelled at portraiture as well and pictured a range of cultural figures in the 1930s, most of them personal friends, from Charlie Chaplin to Pablo Picasso. By age 30 Miller had run commercial studios on both sides of the Atlantic; taken a star turn in art cinema and become an haute couture icon; and moving on from Paris to Cairo, influenced Egyptian modern art while reinvigorating her own work through travels in Egypt’s deserts."}
{"i": 483, "title": "Beyond Form: Abstraction at Midcentury", "raw": "Featuring 65 artists from more than 23 countries, this exhibition explores how abstraction emerged as a powerful visual language between 1940 and 1970, a period of global upheaval and transformation. While abstraction allowed artists across the world to move beyond realism to convey complex emotions, ideas, and experiences, it was not a singular movement. There was no one reason artists turned to abstraction, no one abstract technique or style. The impulses, methods, and resulting artworks were wildly divergent. Many artists responded to shifting social and political climates by employing materials in unexpected and, at times, deliberately destructive ways. Processes such as burning, tearing, folding, and layering embraced chance and resisted categorization. Others drew inspiration from their natural and built environments as they sought to ground themselves after the instability wrought by World War II. Some artists explored language, breaking characters and letters into illegible symbols, responding to the inability to communicate the horrors of war and through a lens of cultural exchange. As artists moved across the globe—whether through forced exile or voluntary travel for education—they formed groups to develop innovative techniques and exchange ideas. Among these groups were Gutai in Japan, Atelier 17 in Paris and New York, Tamarind Lithography Workshop in California, ZERO in Germany, and Grupo Frente in Brazil. Confronting censorship, inequality, and displacement, artists turned to abstraction as a means of practicing freedom of expression in the face of oppression and making sense of wartime atrocities."}
{"i": 484, "title": "Self, Made: Fourteen Modern Artists from the Richard and Ellen Sandor Family Collection", "raw": "This exhibition tells stories of self-invention in photography, drawing, and sculpture, most of them from artists working beyond the gallery and museum system that typically validates creative work. The artworks gathered reflect the egalitarian, broad-minded vision of Richard and Ellen Sandor, who in 1978 moved into a spacious, historic apartment in Chicago with—to quote from the book that accompanies this exhibition—“two kids in tow, a photograph by Walker Evans, and a sculpture by Rodin. And not a stick of furniture.” Prodigious art collectors alongside their day jobs as economist (Richard) and artist (Ellen), the Sandors progressively filled their walls with a remarkable constellation of works: historical and contemporary, celebrated and overlooked, exalted and humble. They prized innovation and, above all, individuality—makers with a strong sense of self. “Outsider” artists —a loose and controversial category—quickly came to the Sandors’ attention through Chicago gallerists and James Zanzi, a professor at the School of the Art Institute with whom Ellen had studied. Examples by William Edmondson, Lee Godie, Martín Ramírez, and others included in the show helped to spur lively discussions about innovation and artistic recognition that the Sandors held in a room they dubbed the “Outsiders’ Café.” The Sandors also closely followed the careers of Cindy Sherman and Kara Walker, convinced of their critical talent and committed to supporting art by women and people of color. Sherman and Walker, along with filmmaker John Waters and French installation artist Annette Messager, add perspectives from the center of the established art world, but like many of the “outsider” artists the Sandors collected, they saw value in what Messager called “worthless art,” using television, campy provocation, glossy magazines, or flea-market mirrors as references or source material."}
{"i": 485, "title": "Abigail Lucien: Blood of the Earth", "raw": "In Blood of the Earth, Haitian American artist Abigail Lucien explores the ways that iron connects us to histories, the material world, and each other. Lucien’s artistic practice has long focused on iron—a mineral born from the explosion of stars that forms the molten core of the Earth and is essential to human life. Not only does iron course through our blood, but it also permeates the world around us—in everyday objects, technologies, and the built environment. Iron shape-shifts across terrestrial and celestial scales, and with this exhibition, Lucien probes its narrative and social potential. In the Caribbean, ornate iron gates and grilles adorn ordinary buildings, and in Africa, the iron forge is considered a sacred space of creation. In their sculptural works, Lucien sustains these lineages of artistry and expression, engaging processes, typologies, and iconography that acknowledge craft traditions and diasporic experience. For their solo exhibition Blood of the Earth, Lucien presents a series of new sculptural works in an immersive installation, conceived as a speculative space of creation and possibility. These objects include a furnace, bellows, anvil, and other tools that evoke an active metalsmithing workshop animated by the life force of iron. Iron becomes malleable and viscous when heated and can be forged, welded, and poured into molds. It can also be etched through chemical treatment and turned into steel by adding carbon. These transformative processes—which Lucien used to create the objects on view—embody the adaptability and transitory nature of belonging."}
{"i": 486, "title": "Embroidered Traditions from Morocco to Afghanistan", "raw": "In the textiles of Southwest Asia and North Africa, embroidery is more than surface decoration. In this region, known as SWANA, artists have used, and continue to use, centuries-old embellishment techniques to transmit cultural expressions of identity, status, and long-held belief systems. Cultural groups throughout the region wear layers of dress and adornment to protect their bodies physically and spiritually. Garments and household items are ornamented with valuable materials that function as wearable wealth, including symbolic motifs and designs constructed with coins, thread, beads, amulets, ornaments, and jewelry. The vast area that spans from Morocco and Algeria in the west to Afghanistan and Uzbekistan in the east is connected by millennia-old trade networks. The works presented reveal pathways of deep cultural exchange shaped by diverse landscapes—from mountains and deserts to seas—along with the movement of nomadic peoples and the spread and interweaving of multiple religious traditions and urban fashions. Embroidered Traditions from Morocco to Afghanistan is the first exhibition at the Art Institute of Chicago devoted exclusively to the artistic and cultural traditions of SWANA and spectacularly showcases the region’s distinctive beauty and iconic visual expressions. Drawn primarily from the Art Institute’s rich collection of textiles, jewelry, and adornment, this display presents over 70 works from the 18th through 20th century—most of which have never been exhibited publicly—including four rare face veils on loan from a private collector based in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia."}
{"i": 487, "title": "Raqib Shaw: Paradise Lost", "raw": "Epic and intricate, monumental and meticulous—the paintings of Kashmir-raised, London-based artist Raqib Shaw offer fantastical meditations on identity, transformation, and the redemptive power of beauty. Born in Calcutta and raised in the verdant Himalayan mountains of Kashmir, Shaw draws deeply on the landscapes and memories of his early life, many of which were fractured by political upheaval. Forced to leave Kashmir as a teenager, he relocated first to New Delhi and later to London, where he studied at Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design. His work is influenced by a broad range of sources—Mughal and Persian miniatures, Renaissance altarpieces, Old Masters paintings, Japanese arts of the Momoyama period, Kashmiri and Urdu poetry, and Hindu and Western mythology—and yet his visual vocabulary and technique are all his own. His signature method involves applying an acrylic liner on gesso to create a golden line almost like the leading of a stained glass window. He then applies automobile enamel paints with needle-fine syringes and manipulates those with a porcupine quill, often adding glittering inset stones and baubles that further enhance the magical and dreamlike quality of the depicted scenes."}
{"i": 488, "title": "Edgar Calel: Corn Mountain of Life (Ixim Juyu K’aslem)", "raw": "Guatemala-born artist Edgar Calel works closely with materials, rituals, and techniques from his Maya-Kaqchikel family and community. For Calel, rather than an expression of individuality, art is a way to pass down knowledge and understanding through generations, amplifying long historical traditions and communal bonds. At its heart, his work honors the idea that knowledge is shared, not owned. Calel often uses recycled or readily available supplies, echoing how people build in his community. On the Bluhm Family Terrace, Calel presents a hut made from recycled materials, similar to the practical shelters common in the countryside near his home. In Kaqchikel, the artist’s first language, these huts are called K’ojay, which translates to “we have a house” or “we have a future.” Families often place these huts near fields or gardens to store tools, the season’s harvest, and firewood for the colder months—items to sustain life throughout the course of the year. Inside the structure, Calel has placed a sculpture of a turtle with corn breaking through its shell. In Maya cosmology, the turtle, with its rounded shell, represents the earth and its time cycles, and corn not only symbolizes the element from which humanity was first formed but also is the central sustaining force of Maya life. On the outside, a mountain of ceramic corn implies abundance and security."}
{"i": 489, "title": "Jitish Kallat: Public Notice 3", "raw": "Jitish Kallat’s site-specific installation, Public Notice 3, returns to the Art Institute of Chicago’s Grand Staircase this fall after a 14-year hiatus. Initially unveiled on September 11, 2010, the work connects two significant historical events separated by 108 years: the First World’s Parliament of Religions which began on September 11, 1893, and the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001. At the earlier event, the World Parliament of Religions, held in an auditorium that encompassed the area that today includes both the museum’s Fullerton Hall and Woman’s Board Grand Staircase, a young Hindu monk, Swami Vivekananda electrified audiences with a powerful speech calling for an end to religious fundamentalism, intolerance, and bigotry. This very speech forms the basis of Kallat’s work, as the staircase risers are illuminated by Vivekananda’s words in five alternating colors—red, orange, yellow, blue, and green. These colors, borrowed from the decade-long advisory system of the US Department of Homeland Security following the attacks of 9/11, formed a spectrum denoting terrorism threat levels—from red for severe to green for low. Kallat transforms this motif of public vigilance into a radiant signal, reflecting Swami Vivekananda’s timeless and urgent plea for tolerance and universal acceptance. Hear from the artist in this conversation with curator Madhuvanti Ghose, conducted at the museum on September 12, 2024."}
{"i": 490, "title": "Jill Mulleady: The Passenger", "raw": "Jill Mulleady paints by breathing new life into unseen histories. Drawing from art-historical, cinematic, and literary sources, her memorable images can haunt the viewer long after encountering them. This exhibition—Mulleady’s first solo show at a major museum—brings together approximately 20 paintings by the artist. Mulleady uses various methods including staining, and at times incorporating materials such as copper, to achieve fragile, luminous surfaces that feel impossibly thin yet visually deep, holding tension between flatness and depth. Not limited to canvas or linen, she employs a range of supports, including glass and velvet. The resultant works balance different degrees of transparency and opacity and can be looked at and, sometimes, seen through. Mulleady’s paintings often depict scenes that are enigmatic and dangerous, showing figures at risk or under threat—from appetite, predation, or compulsion. While these ambiguous scenes may imply narratives, they likewise refuse tidy resolutions. Her imagery draws actively on painting lineages—allegory and the Baroque, Symbolist unease, the grotesque—recasting genres and canonical images for the present. In contrast to the purity and rationality of 20th-century modernism, Mulleady prioritizes a tradition in which chaos, instinct, and history drive art making."}
{"i": 491, "title": "Tony Cokes: On Boredom", "raw": "Tony Cokes works with appropriated text from various sources, including popular music, mass media, and historical and theoretical writing, and remixes it into video, signs, lightboxes, and billboards. Composed of vibrant colors and often set to music, Cokes’s work subverts the language that shapes contemporary life and culture to draw out new meanings and sensations. For his first public outdoor presentation in Chicago, Cokes presents a two-part installation on the Art Institute’s Bluhm Family Terrace. The terrace windows facing Millennium Park become a billboard—viewable from across the street and the park below—with the phrase “Let yourself be free,” drawn from Aretha Franklin’s 1968 recording of “Think.” Franklin frequently visited and sang in Chicago with her father, a prominent pastor and civil rights leader, and it was here that she earned her lifelong title, the Queen of Soul, originally coined by Chicago DJ Pervis Spann at the Regal Theater in Bronzeville in May 1964. The presentation also includes one of Cokes’s freestanding signs, reading “We don’t have the freedom to be bored anymore,” and “There’s a set of forces that want us to be permanently anxious.” Both sentences are from the English cultural theorist Mark Fisher. Together, they question the meaning of freedom in a present defined by rapid technological change and the erosion of private life."}
{"i": 492, "title": "Beatriz González: In Series and Full Color", "raw": "Colombian artist Beatriz González (1932–2026) is widely known as la maestra in her home country. Beyond the literal translation of “teacher,” the term is used as a mark of respect for someone who has achieved a remarkable impact in a particular field. In González’s case, it acknowledges her roles as an artist, historian, curator, and mentor, whose importance transcends national boundaries and continues to resonate on a global scale. Beatriz González: In Series and Full Color is the first retrospective dedicated to the drawings and prints of González, whose practice spanned more than six decades until her passing earlier this year. The exhibition explores her use of appropriation and repetition as both formal and conceptual strategies to reflect critically on the circulation of images, notions of taste, and her country’s recent history. The exhibition begins in 1965 with a pivotal moment that reoriented the artist’s approach to mass media imagery. González encountered a photograph in a newspaper of a couple who had died by suicide and was drawn to the image’s printing distortions, caused by the fact that it had itself been reproduced from another newspaper. Fascinated by these effects, González painted her own interpretation of the portrait. With this work, The Suicides of Sisga, González began transgressing the languages and subject matter deemed appropriate within the fine arts context in Colombia. From that moment on, her “deliberately clumsy” compositions both revealed a command of drawing and printmaking techniques and signaled a rebellion against convention."}
{"i": 493, "title": "Zurbarán: Divine Light", "raw": "Francisco de Zurbarán was one of 17th-century Spain’s greatest painters, renowned for his ability to create works of startling naturalism, directness, and emotional power. A virtuoso interpreter of sacred subjects, Zurbarán produced religious painting series of staggering scale and narrative ingenuity. He was also an acute observer of reality, and his portraits, still lifes, and works for private devotion continue to resonate through their striking vividness four centuries after their making. This exhibition is the first dedicated to the artist in the United States in 40 years. Bringing together approximately 50 works from 30 major lenders across the world, many never seen in the US before, the presentation showcases this consummate artist of the Spanish Golden Age and his greatest achievements in painting. This exhibition is organized by the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Gallery, London, and the Musée du Louvre."}
{"i": 494, "title": "Vilhelm Hammershøi: Pictures from Home", "raw": "Vilhelm Hammershøi is celebrated as Denmark’s most important painter of the late 19th and early 20th century, known particularly for his series of enigmatic, evocative, and painstakingly observed views of the Copenhagen apartment he shared with his wife, Ida, between 1898 and 1909. This presentation—the first in North America devoted to Hammershøi in over 25 years—focuses exclusively on these famous paintings of his home’s interior and brings together an unprecedented number—more than half—of the 65 domestic scenes the artist produced, including the Art Institute’s recently acquired Interior. The Music Room, Strandgade 30 and several works from distinguished private collections that have rarely been shown publicly. The apartment at Strandgade 30 was simultaneously Hammershøi’s home, studio, and obsessive artistic subject, and this exhibition showcases how he transformed this seemingly hermetic world into a site of endless artistic possibilities, painting many rooms and compositions multiple times with slight shifts in lighting or in the arrangement of furniture or objects. This profound engagement with repetition and difference is highlighted throughout the exhibition as are other compositional throughlines in Hammershøi’s work—his ambiguous spatial constructions, emphasis on linearity, and subtle approach to light and shadow. The presentation also explores interpretive themes in his paintings—the relation of light and shadow to the passing of time, the “lives” of his household objects as they migrated between various rooms, and the complex role that Ida played in many of the paintings."}
{"i": 495, "title": "Carroll Dunham: Drawings, 1974–2024", "raw": "“There is no work by Carroll Dunham that does not use drawing as a foundation.” —Carroll Dunham Over the course of five decades, Dunham has engaged in wide-ranging formal and thematic experimentation across various media, yet his drawings represent a distinct, interconnected body of work. Dunham’s mature artistic career began in 1970s New York amid a scene dominated by Minimalist aesthetics. Using simple elements such as line, shape, and color, he made a tremendous impact with work that nevertheless signaled a return to subject matter. In the intervening decades, Dunham has continued to produce drawings that test, and ultimately collapse, the porous boundaries between abstraction and figuration: bodies shapeshift into buildings, trees pose like models, the cellular resembles the cosmic, and internal organs or private parts are made very public. Working in series, Dunham methodically tests out every possible outcome of a drawing’s composition or content. This approach seems to spontaneously yield new imagery and ideas that link one body of work to the next. His influences are likewise wide-ranging—art history, philosophy, psychoanalysis, and evolutionary science as well as science fiction and comic books—all of which inform his explorations of the tension between male and female, nature and culture, self and other."}
{"i": 496, "title": "Lucas Samaras: Sitting, Standing, Walking, Looking", "raw": "Over seven decades, Lucas Samaras developed an utterly unique approach to art making. While he experimented with a wide range of materials, his own body and belongings were the primary subject of his photographs, sculptures, and drawings. Samaras was born in Greece and as a boy he witnessed the Greek Civil War firsthand. Art making became an escape from the war’s horrors and the way it complicated his family dynamic. While his father moved to New Jersey, he and his mother stayed in Greece for nine years. The family didn’t reunite until Samaras was 12 and moved with his mother to the US. Following his youth in Greece, Samaras’s work was also deeply influenced by his participation in ”happenings,” live artworks that combined installation and performance that emerged in New York in the late 1950s and 1960s. This exhibition focuses on Samaras’s innovative photographs, which unite his background in performance and his technical achievements with instant process film, particularly Polaroid. This brand-name film produced a negative and positive simultaneously, eliminating the need for a darkroom or external processing. Such independence and privacy appealed to Samaras who wanted to make pictures of himself in his own home without involving others. The artist, however, didn’t use the mass-marketed film in a straightforward manner but really pushed its limits, frequently moving the color pigment around to shapeshift his body, blur the boundary between himself and his surroundings, and radically restructure his compositions."}
{"i": 497, "title": "Korean National Treasures: 2,000 Years of Art", "raw": "From 6th-century gilt bronze Buddhist sculpture through Joseon dynasty painting and white porcelain and contemporary paintings of the late 20th century, the works of art in this exhibition demonstrate the artistic legacy produced on the Korean peninsula over millennia. Once privately held, these artworks now belong to the Korean people thanks to a single groundbreaking gift from the family of Lee Kun-Hee, late chairman of Samsung Group. In 2021 the family donated over 23,000 works to the Korean government for public audiences to study and appreciate in perpetuity. Lee Kun-Hee and his father, Lee Byung-Chull, collected exceptional and storied objects from throughout Korean history as a means of preserving and celebrating the nation’s cultural heritage. This exhibition marks the first time the works are on public display. Among the 140 artworks on view—including modern and historical painting, ceramics, and objects made for Buddhist worship and scholarly study—22 are officially recognized as National Treasures or Treasures by the Korean government. These objects are recognized as remarkable examples of their type and distinguished for their exceptional historic, artistic, and academic value."}
{"i": 498, "title": "Matisse’s Jazz: Rhythms in Color", "raw": "In the early 1940s, decades into his artistic career, Henri Matisse (1869–1954) turned his focus to a new medium: cut paper. He had become bedridden and unable to paint following an excruciating abdominal surgery, and cut paper allowed him to continue to create in his relatively sedentary state. Encouraged by his friend, the book publisher Tériade (the pseudonym of Stratis Eleftheriades), Matisse furthered his exploration of this new technique. He mined his memories of Parisian music halls, the circus, trips to Tahiti, folktales, and mythology, and produced a series of 20 cut-paper maquettes. These vibrant original compositions were then faithfully reproduced using pochoir (stencil) and combined with an original text written by Matisse to form an unbound book, Jazz, that was published in 1947—when Matisse was 77 years old. Jazz caused an immediate international sensation and reinvigorated the aging artist, setting him on a new course of artistic discovery. Matisse’s extraordinary images of Jazz are not only captivating and provocative in their own right but also reflect a practice devoted to the exploration of color and line. Throughout the artist’s decades-long career, he pushed color from the purely visual to the nearly transcendental and progressively simplified his line to the most elemental. But until his cut-outs, his color and line existed separately, one modifying the other but never fully unified—at least not to Matisse’s own satisfaction."}
{"i": 499, "title": "Modern Japanese Portraits in Print", "raw": "The 1940s and 1950s were a pivotal time for Japan’s creative print movement, known as sōsaku hanga. Just after World War II, artists who had primarily trained in oil painting turned to woodblock prints to portray the people around them, using the medium’s power and immediacy to capture a disappearing traditional world. This exhibition features the work of four sōsaku hanga artists: Onchi Kōshirō (1891–1955) and his followers Sekino Jun’ichirō (1914–1988), Saitō Kiyoshi (1907–1997), and Kitaoka Fumio (1918–2007). Onchi was the movement’s main advocate, and his name is synonymous with the group. From 1939, sōsaku hanga artists met at his home on the first Thursday of every month, where they received the encouragement they needed to flourish. The portraits of this postwar movement are melancholic, and Onchi often cited the abstract and expressive portraits of Modernist European artists like Wassily Kandinsky and Edvard Munch as inspiration. Accordingly, the emotionally charged pieces he and his contemporaries printed during this era imbued their subjects with psychological nuance and depth."}
{"i": 500, "title": "Myth and Marble: Ancient Roman Sculpture from the Torlonia Collection", "raw": "From large-scale figures of gods and goddesses to portraits of emperors and magnificent funerary monuments, this exhibition brings to North America, for the first time, a selection of 58 rarely seen ancient Roman sculptures from Italy’s storied Torlonia Collection. Nearly half of these sculptures, which range in date from the 5th century BCE to the early 4th century CE, have not been publicly displayed in more than 70 years and have been newly cleaned, conserved, and studied specifically for this exhibition, making for a spectacular opportunity to experience their first public presentation in decades. The Torlonia Collection is not only the largest private collection of Roman marble sculptures in Italy, but it is also arguably the most important of such private collections in the world. Comprising 622 works and a wide range of sculptural types and subjects, its holdings rival those of major institutions in Europe, including the Capitoline and Vatican Museums. This veritable “collection of collections” was formed in the 19th century by Prince Giovanni Torlonia (1754–1829) and his son Prince Alessandro (1800–1886), primarily through the purchase of several groups of ancient sculpture assembled in early modern Rome, as well as through extensive archaeological excavations on Torlonia estates in Italy. The taste at this time was for complete works of art, and restorations and other interventions carried out across the decades—in some instances by famed sculptors of the day—have impacted the sculptures’ current appearances while also enriching their histories."}
{"i": 501, "title": "Lines of Connection: Drawing and Printmaking", "raw": "The first exhibition ever to focus on the multiple connections between drawing and printmaking, this presentation brings together around 90 works on paper by some of the greatest artists in the Western tradition to uncover the inner workings of their creative process and offer new ways to think about the links between the two mediums. Featuring fascinating drawings and exceptional prints from the late 15th century though the mid-19th century by artists such as Albrecht Dürer, Parmigianino, Rembrandt, Peter Paul Rubens, Maria Sibylla Merian, Francisco Goya, and William Blake, the exhibition explores the creative exchange between the two practices by showcasing preparatory drawings for prints, printed imitations of drawings, and drawn copies of prints. A selection of hybrid works also questions traditional definitions, strict boundaries, and outdated hierarchical distinctions between media. Among the many remarkable loans enriching the exhibition are two astonishing drawings of a right hand by Hendrick Goltzius, which will be shown alongside each other for the first time in over a generation. Additionally an impressive drawing by Rembrandt of Leonardo da Vinci’s Last Supper makes its Chicago debut. With a wealth of exceptionally beautiful works, Lines of Connection offers fresh perspectives on two intertwined mediums and lifts the curtain on the rarely foregrounded subjects of artistic training, workshop practices, and the afterlife and collecting of works on paper."}
{"i": 502, "title": "En el principio / In the beginning: Juliana Góngora Rojas, Matías Quintero Sepúlveda, Juven Piranga Valencia, and Yinela Piranga Valencia", "raw": "Juliana Góngora Rojas is a Colombian sculptor who engages with organic materials, such as soil, salt, stones, or spider threads. Interested in establishing networks of community and spiritual exchange, Góngora collaborates with artisans, farmers, and Indigenous communities in works that emphasize the importance of ordinary materials and daily actions, as well as the ties that intimately bind human beings with nature. For her first exhibition at a major institution in the United States, Góngora has invited fellow artist Matías Quintero Sepúlveda and Juven and Yinela Piranga Valencia, leaders of the Ko’revaju Indigenous community of the Northern Colombian Amazon, to create an installation that honors the ongoing dialogue and spiritual collaboration that they have collectively sustained over several years. Weaving together earth, its pigments, milk, plant fibers, and seeds, the artists and community leaders give form to their shared vision of interconnectedness, collectivity, and creation. At the heart of the exhibition are two works that together represent a complete universe, heavens and earth, womb and seed: the textile Manto celeste (Celestial Cloth), whose sand-based blue pigmentation represents motherhood, water, and the cosmic sky, and the burnished soil installation Piso de tierra (Earth Floor)."}
{"i": 503, "title": "Frida Kahlo’s Month in Paris: A Friendship with Mary Reynolds", "raw": "Unveiling Frida Kahlo’s work for the first time in the Art Institute galleries, this exhibition focuses on the celebrated Mexican artist’s first and only trip to Europe and her brief yet pivotal encounter with Mary Reynolds, an American avant-garde bookbinder who stood at the center of a rich Parisian artistic community. Drawing upon the extensive Mary Reynolds Collection at the Art Institute of Chicago and extraordinary Kahlo loans from public and private collections in the US, Mexico, and Europe, the presentation sheds light on this little-known chapter of 20th-century art history, recounting the legacies of Kahlo and Reynolds—both artists themselves and partners of artists—as they navigated Surrealism, identity, and cross-cultural exchange on the eve of World War II. Kahlo traveled to France in January 1939 at the invitation of André Breton, the architect of European Surrealism. Breton had visited Kahlo in Mexico the year previously and invited her to consider an exhibition in Paris. The French city, however, did not agree with Kahlo. She quickly found it eroding her sense of artistic freedom and her health—until she met Reynolds. When Kahlo was rushed to the hospital with a kidney infection, Reynolds invited her to convalesce at her home at 14 rue Hallé, a hub of the city’s visual and literary avant-gardes who regularly communed and dined there. Reynolds and her partner, the artist Marcel Duchamp, treated this home as a living work of art and abundantly installed it with their own artworks and unique books, as well as paintings and sculptures by close friends, such as Constantin Brancusi, Alexander Calder, Yves Tanguy, and Jean Cocteau. This rich creative and domestic environment in many ways reflected that of Kahlo’s own beloved Casa Azul in Mexico City."}
{"i": 504, "title": "Japan’s Great Female Poets", "raw": "Japan has long celebrated the talents of its great female poets. The Heian period (794–1185), the golden age of the Japanese imperial court, saw many women writers garner acclaim for novels and a specific type of poetry called waka. Murasaki Shikibu (about 973–1016) and Ono no Komachi (active about 833–57) are two of the country’s most renowned poets from this period. Although little is known about them, these women and their writings inspired numerous legends, some of which became the subjects of Nō and Kabuki plays, as well as woodblock prints. Many of the prints allude to these legends though mitate-e, a playful pictorial device in which one thing is substituted for another, such as a contemporary woman standing in for a historical figure. The images in this exhibition, made during the Edo (1615–1868) and Meiji (1868–1912) periods, show the various ways that artists, including the world-famous Katsushika Hokusai, have interpreted the stories of these influential poets."}
{"i": 505, "title": "Iman Issa: A Game, or So You May Think", "raw": "“I believe objects have a life of their own, independent of a user or a maker’s intentions, which is what makes them so interesting.” Iman Issa’s Heritage Studies are displays based on historical artifacts, which attempt to communicate their significance to the present moment. In her process, the objects are altered: Issa changes their materials, scale, and color to a degree that the resemblance between the historic artifact and Issa’s work can be difficult to discern. Despite these dissimilarities, the artist insists on the equivalence of these objects, almost like the equivalence between a photograph and its subject. Issa also pays special attention to institutional modes of display and interpretation. She includes with her sculptures texts that reference the museological origins of the object being depicted. The objects come to exist somewhere between their material form and the texts surrounding them, positioning them within a network of signification. This exhibition of Issa’s Heritage Studies is the first substantial presentation of these works in the US in a decade. Seen together, they illuminate the artist’s consistent desire to pursue an “art that is not exactly part of the world but is certainly tied to it, revealing of it, and not just because it looks or sounds like it.”"}
{"i": 506, "title": "H. C. Westermann: Anchor Clanker", "raw": "H. C. Westermann’s work combines a graceful mastery of materials, rough and tumble physicality, commonsense philosophizing, acrobatic wit and wordplay, and a sensitive worldview shaped in equal measure by the horrors of wartime and the devotions of love. He used a wide-range of materials but was most dedicated to woodworking, once stating that wood was his “whole life.” Westermann attended the School of the Art Institute of Chicago twice, once after his service in World War II and again after his service in the Korean War. His depth of experience, humble work ethic, and dedication to craft influenced a generation of artists across Chicago, Los Angeles, and beyond. In the Pacific theater of World War II, Westermann served on the USS Enterprise and witnessed violence that shaped his existential worldview and inflected his artworks. Given his time at sea, he often used the symbol of an anchor—alone or in conjunction with his name or initials—as his signature. His work is characteristic of a time before the art historical labels of the 1960s had calcified into hardened categories, and he exhibited in various important exhibitions dedicated to Existential Figuration, Assemblage, and Surrealism. While fellow artist Donald Judd identified him as a key maker of “Specific Objects” in 1963, Westermann’s openness to mass culture has often grouped him with contemporaneous Pop Art, and in 1972 he was included alongside major international Conceptual artists in the exhibition Documenta V. Westermann’s ability to traverse so many historical contexts is a testament to the independence of this consummate American artist."}
{"i": 507, "title": "Contemporary Drawings from the Stenn Family Collection", "raw": "Voraciously curious and contagiously enthusiastic about art, Chicagoan Irving Stenn Jr. has across five decades assembled a spectacular collection of 20th-century art from various movements and across the world. Stenn began collecting art with his wife, Marcia, in 1971, largely as a way of enhancing their newly renovated Lincoln Park home. Although neither had formal art training, she had a discerning eye, and he enjoyed the hunt for the right object. Together they approached the project as a shared learning activity, and in time, they acquired paintings and sculpture by significant artists of the post-World War II period. When Marcia died in 1999, Stenn committed to learning more about drawings. Working with advice from Art Institute curators and others, Stenn amassed a collection of more than 200 works on paper, most by contemporary artists whose work has been linked to movements such as Abstract Expressionism, Pop Art, Minimalism, and Post-Minimalism. Stellar among these works are groups of drawings by Joseph Albers, Sol LeWitt, and Mel Bochner. But Stenn also expanded his appreciation for art from different periods and places, collecting important drawings by Russian avant-garde artists such as Kazmir Malevich and Lyubov Sergeevna Popova and such Latin American artists as Leon Ferrari and Hélio Oiticica. Stenn’s enthusiasm for art is matched only by his dedication to sharing his collection with the public. Over the past 20 years, the Stenn family has given more than 200 works, including paintings and sculptures, to the Art Institute of Chicago. This exhibition celebrates the family’s most recent gift: 100 drawings and prints given in 2023. One of the most significant and collection-enhancing bodies of works on paper given to the museum, this gift offers Art Institute visitors—now and for generations to come—the chance to delve into the experimental ethos of much of 20th-century art and to experience the work of trailblazing artists who had the audacity to try so"}
{"i": 508, "title": "Gustave Caillebotte: Painting His World", "raw": "Impressionist artist Gustave Caillebotte (1848–1894)—known and beloved by many Art Institute visitors for his monumental painting Paris Street; Rainy Day—takes center stage in this major exhibition exploring the very personal interests and relationships that shaped his world. Caillebotte was unique among his Impressionist peers. At a time when modernity was synonymous with fashionable young women and new forms of entertainment, he focused instead on a more intimate and individualized sphere: his family and friends, his fellow sportsmen, the bourgeois pedestrians strolling in his neighborhood, and the workers who came to his house or whom he observed in the street. Despite being born into the wealth built by his father, Caillebotte resisted the idleness associated with the leisured class. He was not only an active member of the Impressionist group but also participated in several activities as a high-level amateur, including rowing, gardening, and sailing. In all of his pursuits, Caillebotte gave his all, taking on the role of leader, organizer, and sometimes financier; he also captured these passions in paint, whether documenting the toil of boating, the serenity of tending a plant, or the concentration of a card game. Caillebotte was equally invested in his personal relationships, both familial and non-familial—and again these relationships, especially with the males he interacted with as son, brother, employer, colleague, and friend—are the focus of many of his artworks."}
{"i": 509, "title": "The Dawn of Modernity: Japanese Prints, 1850–1900", "raw": "After almost 250 years of near-total isolation, Japan opened to international trade in 1859. American commodore Matthew Perry had arrived in 1853 with a fleet of imposing, steam-powered warships, triggering an influx of foreign ideas, goods, and technologies to Japan. Yokohama, a small trading settlement, became the center of this new commercialism. Japanese printmakers documented these watershed events and promoted the image of a modern nation in ascent. Influenced by the introduction of photography and Western newspaper illustrations, printmakers explored new formats. Many works in this exhibition are triptychs—horizontal compositions spanning three panels—particularly well suited to depicting wide boulevards, lengthy steam trains, and large buildings. These new subjects and the broader format appealed to both domestic and international audiences. In 1868 Japan’s shogunate, the government that had once kept it largely isolated, collapsed. The emperor was restored, ushering in the Meiji period, which lasted until 1912. Under Emperor Meiji, Japan rapidly modernized, led by the mottoes of Bunmei Kaika (civilization and enlightenment) and Fukoku Kyōhei (enrich the country, strengthen the military). The prints in this gallery reflect Japan’s attempts to define itself between Eastern and Western influences and to become Asia’s modern empire."}
{"i": 510, "title": "Pixy Liao: Relationship Material", "raw": "Since 2007, Pixy Liao (廖逸君) has collaborated with her partner, Takahiro Morooka (諸岡高裕, nicknamed Moro), on a series of staged, often humorous self-portraits. These works wryly examine the power dynamics between artist and muse, prod at conservative gender roles, and document the evolution of their relationship. Pixy (born 1979 in Shanghai, China), an artist working in photography, installation, and performance, met Japanese-born artist and musician Moro in 2006 when both were international students in Memphis, Tennessee. Their creative partnership has grown and evolved over the years to include many projects including their music group, PIMO, which has released six albums to date. Pixy began the photographic series, known as Experimental Relationship, shortly after she and Moro met, with many of the works playfully referencing art history, film, music, and other artifacts of popular culture. She plans to continue it so long as they remain together."}
{"i": 511, "title": "Charles Gaines: Night/Crimes", "raw": "Since the 1970s, artist Charles Gaines has worked with numeric systems and repeating visual structures to investigate representation. His subjects have ranged from race theory and language theory to objects in the natural world. This exhibition focuses on Night/Crimes, a series Gaines created from 1994 to 1997, in which he paired archival photographs of violent crime scenes, victims, and indicted murderers with images of constellations that could have been seen in the night sky when the crimes occurred. Written onto the Plexiglas covering each pair of photographs are the location and date of the crime, the astronomical position of the pictured constellation, and lastly, a date 50 years after the first one. While the paired photographs of Night/Crimes suggest narrative cycles of violence, justice, astrology, and fate, there is no causal connection between the artworks’ various elements. “The murderers pictured in the mug shot-type photographs are not the ones who have committed the crimes you see in the crime scene,” says Gaines. “Nevertheless, it seems compelling to people to override the fact that this relationship is completely made up.” As viewers, our instinct is to assume the role of detective: What is the relationship between the chaos of violence and the tranquility of the night sky? How does the injustice of the past influence the present? Are our fates written in the stars?"}
{"i": 512, "title": "Leslie Thornton: Jennifer, Where Are You?", "raw": "Leslie Thornton’s film Jennifer, Where Are You? revolves around a young girl haphazardly applying red lipstick while a man off-screen calls out, “Jennifer, where are you?” The film cuts between the girl, upside-down scenes of suburban life, and footage of swimming fish, all accompanied by a musical score that grows increasingly ominous. As the imagery, music, and child’s facial expressions change, our perception of the question—one that never gets answered—also shifts, displaying media’s powerful ability to alter meaning with colliding sounds and images. Thornton emerged from a generation of artists and filmmakers concerned with the ways that film, as a medium, structures identities and perceptions of women. Influenced by the theory that the unconscious mind operates through signs and symbols, like language, Thornton has made the relationship between speech and cinema central to her work. “The way language works has been a lifelong preoccupation,” Thornton says. “Speech was like an object, an enemy, a barrier.”"}
{"i": 513, "title": "Elizabeth Catlett: “A Black Revolutionary Artist and All That It Implies”", "raw": "“I have been, and am currently, and always hope to be a Black revolutionary artist, and all that it implies.” —Elizabeth Catlett, May 1970, in a speech delivered from Mexico to attendees at the Conference on the Functional Aspects of Black Art in Chicago, after Catlett was denied a US visa A deft sculptor and printmaker, ardent feminist, and lifelong social activist, Elizabeth Catlett (1915–2012) was a defining artist of the 20th century. Across nearly 100 years—from Jim Crow segregation through the Cold War and into Barack Obama’s first term as president—Catlett remained steadfast in her commitment to both her art and her political beliefs. Born in Washington, DC, and growing up during the Great Depression, she witnessed class inequality, racial violence, and US imperialism firsthand, all while pursuing an artistic education grounded in modernism. In 1946 Catlett settled permanently in Mexico, where she worked for the rest of her life, amplifying the experiences of Black and Mexican women."}
{"i": 514, "title": "Tuan Andrew Nguyen: We Were Lost in Our Country", "raw": "For the Ngurrara people of Western Australia, Country is not just a place. The word also signifies kinship with the lands, waters, and skies of the Great Sandy Desert, which the Aboriginal communities of the Walmajarri, Wangkajunga, Mangala, and Juwaliny language groups have stewarded for millennia. Tuan Andrew Nguyen’s film We Were Lost in Our Country explores how these communities established legal rights to their ancestral land by creating the monumental painting Ngurrara Canvas II in 1997. Painted entirely from memory and intergenerational knowledge, Ngurrara Canvas II maps the environmental features of 29,000 square miles of the Great Sandy Desert. Created by 44 Ngurrara artists, it is more than a cartographic representation of territory. It was conceived and produced as evidence of Indigenous connections to Country, securing the land—and the spiritual worldview it embodies—for future generations. Nguyen’s film brings together archival and new footage, including interviews with surviving map artists and younger community members who were raised outside of the desert, disconnected from Country. It meditates on dispossession and inherited trauma, as well as on ways of knowing and belonging. In We Were Lost in Our Country, Nguyen shows how collective memory heals and engenders solidarity and how storytelling and art making are forms of political resistance."}
{"i": 515, "title": "On Loss and Absence: Textiles of Mourning and Survival", "raw": "Drawn primarily from the Art Institute of Chicago’s collection, On Loss and Absence brings together over 100 objects from diverse cultures dating from antiquity to today to reveal the ways people use textiles to sustain spiritual beliefs, understand death, cope with grief, remember those who have passed, and heal from trauma, both personally and collectively. Four themes structure the presentation: “Death and Mourning” highlights how textiles help people negotiate experiences of loss and grief and includes funeral hangings, burial cloths, and mourning samplers, along with works by such contemporary artists as Nick Cave and Carina Yepez. “Transition of Realms” expresses spiritual beliefs about life, death, and other cosmologies that are woven into textiles through works such as Indonesian palepai (or ship cloths) and a Taoist priest’s robe. “Care and Repair” considers material losses, mending, and memory through textile fragments and highlights the science and artistry of textile conservation as a form of care. And finally “Resistance and Survival” showcases textiles as acts of defiance and cultural endurance; in this section, the works of contemporary practitioners, including the Noqanchis collective of Andean weavers and Diné (Navajo) weaver Barbara Teller Ornelas, provide insight into the enduring legacies of Indigenous textile arts of the Americas. Together, these wide-ranging works showcase textiles as vital agents of remembrance, resilience, and continuity and provide visitors with the opportunity to look closely and honor the stories the works tell. Curated by four artists whose paths merged at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago’s Fiber and Material Studies department, On Loss and Absence is deeply informed by their practices as makers and their respect for fellow artists as holders of material, ancestral, and cultural knowledge."}
{"i": 516, "title": "Diane Simpson: “Good for Future”", "raw": "Over the past 50 years, Chicago-based artist Diane Simpson has created work inspired by a diverse range of sources including clothing, household objects, and architecture. Working from highly detailed preparatory drawings, Simpson develops complex geometries which she then transforms into three-dimensional objects that call into question perspective and scale. Produced entirely by hand with painstaking care, Simpson’s sculptures are intimately domestic, spatially challenging, and terrifically strange. For her installation on the Bluhm Family Terrace, Simpson is producing three newly commissioned works derived from a set of drawings she made in the mid-1980s for sculptures that were never realized. On the outside of her rolled-up drawings, she wrote a note to herself: “Good for Future.” Merging past and present, Diane Simpson: “Good for Future” places Simpson’s architectonic forms in dialogue with the Chicago skyline in what will be the artist’s inaugural presentation of outdoor sculpture."}
{"i": 517, "title": "Strange Realities: The Symbolist Imagination", "raw": "Symbolism is among the most complex art movements to define. Although it followed on the heels of Impressionism, whose imagery was accessible and bright, Symbolism’s dark and mysterious vocabulary is far less known. While Symbolist artists were aligned in their embrace of the creative imagination, they used diverse styles and drew inspiration from the past, the future, and the interior self. Complicating the movement further was its lack of a single central hub; instead Symbolism was a loosely connected trend across Europe. Symbolism, in fact, began as a literary movement in France in the 1880s and later expanded to visual art in Belgium, Germany, Norway, and elsewhere. Reacting against rationalism, materialism, and Impressionism’s focus on the external world, Symbolist artists sought instead to represent the unseeable—ideas and emotions. These artists shared a general cynicism about the late 19th century’s moral decline, technological advancements brought about by rapid industrialization, and the rural flight to urban centers. In response they made art that invented alternate realities. Some artists turned to the past, transposing mythological and religious subjects onto the present moment; others turned to the future, imagining anarchist or idyllic worlds; while still others sought meaning by examining and excavating the self."}
{"i": 518, "title": "János Megyik Photograms", "raw": "“If through an interpretative hypothesis I get inside the structure of an existing work, and some of its layers open before me, I arrive at a field I can upset and reconstruct, and create a new dimension that could not be seen or imagined beforehand.” —János Megyik For six decades, János Megyik (Hungarian, born 1938) has been making poetic investigations of fractal geometry and perspectival systems, motivated by questions of point, line, plane, volume, and all that lies between and beyond their innumerable intersections. In 1983, following a decade or so spent building constructions from larch wood, the artist started experimenting with the cameraless technique known as the photogram. To create a photogram, objects are placed directly upon photographic paper that is then exposed to light, darkening the exposed areas and revealing a shadow-like image of the object in white (or, if the object is transparent, shades of gray). Using his Vienna studio as a makeshift darkroom, Megyik spread six-foot-long sections of photosensitized paper directly on the floor and made photograms of his larch wood constructions—essentially creating reversals of his earlier work. Over the next five years Megyik made about 50 of these photograms. Working photographically offered the artist a ready means to give negative and positive space equal weight and to emphasize that “drawing” space always involves an interpretation. For Megyik, however, rigorous spatial analysis goes hand in hand with a sense of wonder at the infinite and absolute."}
{"i": 519, "title": "Threaded Visions: Contemporary Weavings from the Collection", "raw": "Weaving—it’s a familiar term, a millennia-old art form, and a technique used across the world. But what exactly is weaving? What does the process entail? Weaving is the act of making fabric by interlacing threads using a loom. It may sound simple, but because a whole cloth or segment comes off the loom fully realized, all the various artistic decisions—colors, textures, design, materials, techniques—must be decided before any weaving begins. A woven work is a concept made manifest. This exhibition, drawn entirely from the Art Institute’s permanent collection, explores the beautiful diversity of this ancient and global practice through the works of 13 contemporary artists from five countries. Some of these artists—like Olga de Amaral of Colombia—are internationally admired and have decades-long careers; others—like Qualeasha Wood from the United States—have come to prominence quite recently. Each of these contemporary creators has been a diligent student of the history of textiles, and this is reflected in their work. Many of the textiles, created from 1983 to today, are made from materials that carry cultural significance for the artist. Respect for the origins of fibers and knowledge of modern and historical techniques enables each artist, in their own way, to make informed decisions about what to use and how to use it."}
{"i": 520, "title": "A Sign of Things to Come: Prints by Japanese Women Artists after 1950", "raw": "Before 1950, women rarely played a part in the production of Japanese prints, which were largely commercial products. After World War II, however, women artists were drawn to the new sōsaku hanga (creative print) movement, whose adherents approached printmaking as a form of artistic expression. In 1956 a small group of these female printmakers created Joryū Hanga Kyōkai, an association that exhibited together for about 10 years. Its members included Iwami Reika and Yoshida Chizuko, both of whom are well-known today and appear in this exhibition. Despite individual successes, like Iwami’s and Yoshida’s, the number of women printmakers in Japan is still a small fraction of the total artists who are active there. Remarkably, the Yoshida family alone boasts three impactful female printmakers, and this display represents all of them. Yoshida Fujio began to explore sensual abstracted floral themes in prints in 1950 at the age of 62. Her daughter-in-law, Yoshida Chizuko, trained as an abstract painter, but she expanded her practice in 1953 after she married a printmaker. Yoshida Ayomi is the youngest and most conceptual artist of the three, and she views her prints primarily as records of her main focus: the carving process. This exhibition features many works that the family gave to the Art Institute between 2011 and 2019. A Sign of Things to Come: Prints by Japanese Women Artists after 1950 is curated by Janice Katz, Roger L. Weston Associate Curator of Japanese Art, the Art Institute of Chicago."}
{"i": 521, "title": "Christina Ramberg: A Retrospective", "raw": "Christina Ramberg (1946–1995) was an influential and beloved member of Chicago’s contemporary art scene. While best known for her stylized paintings of fragmented female bodies, throughout her brief yet focused career, she vacillated between the depiction of various figural elements—hair, hands, torsos, and garments—while also creating equally rich, abstracted forms that emphasize structure and surface. This retrospective—the first comprehensive exhibition devoted to Ramberg in almost 30 years—presents approximately 100 works from public and private collections, with several key pieces drawn from the Art Institute’s collection. From intimate early paintings focused on the pattern and form of women’s hairstyles and garments, to mature work featuring cropped female torsos in lingerie that contains and restrains, the exhibition presents her most iconic imagery while grappling with all phases and elements of Ramberg’s continually evolving career. During the mid- to late 1970s, Ramberg pushed her boundary-blurring paintings into a new mode that straddled figuration and abstraction while still questioning idealized body types and gender presentation. These paintings are joined in the exhibition by the artist’s experimental quilts of the late 1980s, when her pioneering obsession with handicraft, garment construction, and domestic textiles led her to abandon painting and focus fully on quilt making. The show additionally includes her final body of work as she returned once again to painting, making dark geometric abstractions that still reveal traces of her lifelong fascination, the human torso."}
{"i": 522, "title": "Foreign Exchange: Photography between Chicago, Japan, and Germany, 1920–1960", "raw": "After World War I, a striking visual language came to prominence in photography, characterized by the use of multiple exposures, unusual vantages, and sharp focus. While this style is often associated with the Bauhaus, an influential German art school of the 1920s and early ‘30s, this exhibition—of nearly 100 works across four decades—explores this modernist aesthetic as it developed through exchanges among a broader set of artists from Germany, Japan, and the United States. In 1920s Germany, the Bauhaus professors Walter Gropius and Johannes Itten claimed Japanese traditional architecture and ink painting as precursors to their work, especially the Edo period’s clean lines and stark contrasts between black and white. In the 1930s, certain Japanese artists, such as Ei-Q and Osamu Shiihara, in turn pursued and helped popularize experimental photography from the Bauhaus, including cameraless abstractions and photocollages. This dialogue soon expanded to the United States, where photographers like Nathan Lerner and Yasuhiro Ishimoto, alumni of Chicago’s New Bauhaus (later the Institute of Design), highlighted bold lines and decisive forms in the city’s architecture. Back in Japan, this visual language resurfaced after World War II, as seen in the abstract sculptural constructions and experimental stage sets photographed jointly by Shozo Kitadai and Kiyoji Otsuji. This exhibition brings together exemplary objects from our collections of Photography and Media, Arts of Asia, Modern and Contemporary, and Prints and Drawings to trace this conversation that transcended national boundaries and identities and that, for many artists, offered refuge from racist and nationalist hostilities fomented in wartime. Their shared visual language was, and is, stateless."}
{"i": 523, "title": "John Knight: A work in situ", "raw": "John Knight creates projects in situ, which are the result of careful observation of specific sites, and ex situ, which bring references to other places into the exhibition space. Whether in situ or ex situ, Knight’s works are context dependent, crystalizing the social, political, and economic forces that structure our built environment. John Knight: A work in situ is curated by Giampaolo Bianconi, associate curator, Modern and Contemporary Art."}
{"i": 524, "title": "Four Chicago Artists: Theodore Halkin, Evelyn Statsinger, Barbara Rossi, and Christina Ramberg", "raw": "“[A] work of art exists as a whole. No explanation can convey to the heart the full meaning and wonder of art. That meaning is a live thing and withers at the [word’s] touch! —Evelyn Statsinger Unlike many 20th-century cities where artists were expected to work within the parameters of a predefined canon, Chicago’s artistic influences circulated freely. In a do-it-yourself and communal spirit, local artists made their own way, creating a shared set of decidedly Chicago artistic values consistent across generations and statuses. Thus, despite the 20-year separation between Theodore “Ted” Halkin and Evelyn Statsinger and the generation of Barbara Rossi and Christina Ramberg, each of these four artists shared a commitment to personal authenticity and a talent for inventing original, imaginative compositions inspired by the world around them. On a material level, these values translated into pieces that reworked found and imagined sources into new forms. In her own practice, Rossi called this “form invention”—she once used dish rags to evoke ringlets of hair—but her term speaks broadly to the innovation at the core of each artist’s work. Halkin created landscapes reconfiguring architectural components into fantastical worlds. Statsinger’s intricately patterned drawings and experimental sketchbooks were playgrounds for shape and figure. Ramberg transformed corsets into urns."}
{"i": 525, "title": "Georgia O’Keeffe: “My New Yorks”", "raw": "Famed for her images of flowers and Southwestern landscapes, Georgia O’Keeffe spent several years exploring the built environment of New York City with brush in hand. The artist first moved to the city’s newly built Shelton Hotel in 1924, then the tallest residential skyscraper in the world, and its soaring heights inspired a five-year period of energetic experimentation, across media and at a variety of scales, with subject matter, form, and perspective. Get tips on getting your tickets in advance, joining the exhibition’s virtual line, and visiting during less busy times. Learn more. She created street-level compositions capturing the city’s monumental skyscrapers from below and suspended views looking down from her 30th-floor apartment. O’Keeffe called these works “my New Yorks” and through them investigated the dynamic potential of New York’s cityscape—the organic and the inorganic, the natural and the constructed. As she put it, “One can’t paint New York as it is, but rather as it is felt.”"}
{"i": 526, "title": "Ellsworth Kelly: Spectrum Colors Arranged by Chance", "raw": "In October and November of 1951, Ellsworth Kelly produced a series of eight large-scale collages. Each of the works consisted of papier gommette, sticky colored paper used by French schoolchildren, cut into squares and arranged by chance in a 40-inch-wide grid formation. These collages are key early works in Kelly’s career, showing his experiments with chance, his constructive use of color, and the evolution of his impersonal aesthetic. By the time he made these collages, Kelly was already in the process of developing the non-compositional strategies he would use throughout his career. The humble, commercially produced papier gommette allowed for a nearly infinite number of unexpected color combinations and an overall composition that was not determined by the artist himself. The breakthrough of the Spectrum Colors collages would lead to some of the artist’s most iconic and best known works, including the painting Spectrum Colors Arranged by Chance, made in the summer of 1953 and based on the collage Spectrum Colors Arranged by Chance VI. In 1953 Kelly also produced a ninth and final Spectrum Colors collage. This exhibition brings together, for the first time, the full series of Spectrum Colors collages along with the 1953 painting. By focusing on the importance of a single series to Kelly’s practice, this exhibition illuminates a pivotal chapter in the career of one of the 20th century’s defining artists."}
{"i": 527, "title": "Bruce Nauman: Clown Torture", "raw": "Clown Torture chronicles the absurd misadventures of four clowns, each played by actor Walter Stevens. Artist Bruce Nauman described the protagonists as ranging from an “old French Baroque clown” to a “traditional … red-haired, oversized shoe clown.” The result is utter cacophony, an aural and visual assault. With both clown and viewer locked in an endless loop of failure and degradation, the humor soon turns to horror. Of his work in general, Nauman has said, “From the beginning I was trying to see if I could make art that … was just there all at once. Like getting hit in the face with a baseball bat. Or better, like getting hit in the back of the head. You never see it coming; it just knocks you down. I like that … the kind of intensity that doesn’t give you any trace of whether you’re going to like it or not.” Experimenting with film and video, printmaking, and sculpture, the artist has explored anxiety, boredom, confusion, entrapment, and failure since the beginning of his career. Nauman created Clown Torture after returning to video in the 1980s following a 10-year break."}
{"i": 528, "title": "Kabuki-Actor Portraits by Tōshūsai Sharaku", "raw": "Between the summer of 1794 and early spring of 1795, an artist using the name Tōshūsai Sharaku produced around 150 prints representing Kabuki actors: a prolific display of innovation in a mere ten months. Such prints were popular mementos for fans of the stage—serving as a very marketable type of image at the time—and most of Sharaku’s works featured unusual characters with exaggerated, almost comic expressions and awkward poses. His extensive output stopped suddenly, perhaps because his style’s popularity could not be sustained. Today, his identity remains debated in Japanese print scholarship. The first works attributed to Sharaku depict individuals who appeared in the Kabuki plays presented at the three principal theaters in Edo (present-day Tokyo). These 28 prints are bold and realistic portraits of actors in famous roles, each set against a dark background that sparkles thanks to the application of mica, a mineral silicate. By late fall/early winter of 1794, however, as the peak of the Kabuki season approached, Sharaku began producing designs with two full-length figures apiece. This exhibition contains prints from all stages of Sharaku’s short but generative career. Many were given to the museum by brother and sister Clarence and Kate Buckingham between 1925 and 1934. The Buckinghams’ early collecting efforts have made the Art Institute home to one of the largest and finest collections of Sharaku’s work."}