=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, and mythology. Musical Bodies is the first major exhibition to explore the relationship between musical instruments and the body by bringing together some 130 instruments, paintings, sculptures, drawings, and more to illuminate how we express who we are, what we value, and what we believe. With works from The Met collection and institutions and collectors around the world, the exhibition explores 4,000 years of art and music history, from ancient Egyptian rattles and musical masterpieces by Titian and Degas to instrument-inspired apparel and one of Prince’s most notable guitars. Musical Bodies will resonate with visitors of all ages, whether you are a musician, a devoted listener, or simply curious about human expression. The exhibition is made possible by Barbara Tober, the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary C. and James W. Fosburgh Publications Fund.
  →  Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection.

RAW: The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other collecting areas. Pairings between fashions and artworks will present a spectrum of connections and experiences: from the formal to the conceptual, the aesthetic to the political, the individual to the universal, the illustrative to the symbolic, and the playful to the profound. These pairings are organized into a series of thematic body types that reflect their pervasiveness and endurance through time and cultures. Costume Art is the inaugural exhibition in the new, nearly 12,000-square-foot galleries adjacent to the Great Hall. This space will display The Costume Institute’s annual spring show and, at times, shows from the Museum’s other curatorial departments, including those that explore the intersection of fashion and art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here
  →  Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries.

RAW: In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the great sculptors of the 20th century in dialogue with the ancient civilization that strongly influenced his art and his practice. Throughout his career, Giacometti showed a particular fascination for the art of ancient Egypt. The Egyptian statues he saw in Italy as a young artist made a lasting impression on his visual repertoire, and after he moved to Paris, he regularly visited the Egyptian galleries of the Louvre. His formal dialogue with Egypt can be seen in sketches of walking figures in profile, which were later realized in such works as Walking Woman (I) (1932). At The Met, this elegant figure will be installed in the entrance hall of the Temple of Dendur. The Temple of Dendur was completed in 10 BCE as a commission by Caesar Augustus shortly after he became emperor of Rome. Gifted from Egypt to the United States in 1965, it has been one of the most beloved works of art at The Met since it opened to the public in 1978. In ancient Egypt, the terrace before the temple functioned as an open meeting place between the deity and larger crowds. At The Met, Giacometti's figures will stand alone or in groups on the temple platform—a presentation that echoes the artist's own compositions of figures as well as the life around the temple. The exhibition is made possible by the Kate W. Cassidy Foundation.
  →  Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple.

RAW: The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated travel, rapid technological change, and shifting geopolitics hastened artistic exchange between distant regions and different cultures. Beginning with Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt in 1798 and culminating in the paintings of Ottoman renaissance man Osman Hamdi Bey, this exhibition tells the story of how Islamic works of art made their way to European dealers, collectors, international expositions, and museums, introducing a new visual language to artists, architects, and designers. Deep admiration for the sophisticated techniques and visual language of Islamic art led Owen Jones and other influential figures to transform architecture and design in Europe and America. Artists such as Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Eugène Delacroix, and Jean-Léon Gérôme visited lands and people across the Mediterranean or imagined them from afar. They sometimes depicted what they saw and at other times conjured distant places through memory and imagination, often using Islamic objects to stage their paintings. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy is the first exhibition at The Met to explore Orientalism as its central focus, presenting not only easel paintings but also drawings, photographs, illustrated books, architecture, arms and armor, textiles, garments, glassware, ceramics, and metalwork. Highlighting The Met collection, it features approximately 180 objects from 12 Met departments along with rarely seen loans from the U.S. and abroad. Displayed across four galleries that straddle the departments of European Paintings and Islamic Art, the presentation invites visitors to approach the exhibit
  →  Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa.

RAW: Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Renaissance as “almost eternal,” today Della Robbia sculptures are often as vibrantly luminous as when they emerged from the kiln five hundred years ago. The Met has the largest, most significant collection of Della Robbia glazed terracottas in America. Most have remained in storage for decades. For the first time, Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met features in a single gallery 12 of the Museum’s masterworks by three generations of the Della Robbia family. Rescued from storage, revived through conservation, and reattributed through fresh research, these sculptures are shown with two important loans from a private collector. Another two works are exciting sculptures by Giovanni della Robbia from the Dick Wolf Collection that complement existing works in the Museum’s collection—one is a promised gift and the other, the Mystic Mandorla lunette, recently was gifted to the Museum. Together, the exhibited sculptures span monumental reliefs composed of many interlocking pieces to small statuettes, signaling the scope of the Della Robbias’ art. Collaboration within the Della Robbia workshop fostered innovation. Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met itself results from a collaborative exchange among curators, conservators, and digital specialists. Highlights include the exhibition’s centerpiece featuring 33 newly conserved interlocking pieces of a 10-foot-tall altarpiece that has been off view for 70 years. These are shown alongside a large, animated virtual reconstruction that uses 3D-scanning technology to suggest how the entire altar originally was assembled. Rediscovering Della
  →  Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop.

RAW: This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-term presidency. Rarely seen prints reveal the transatlantic circulation of news about the struggle for independence during a fractious political period. This window into the era’s print culture highlights the global dimensions of the rebellion, the contested ideas about liberty that shaped it, and its consequential outcomes. Also on view are American and European works of art that depict a range of significant individuals. These include the Wampanoag chief Metacomet, whose battles with early colonists laid the groundwork for revolution; the African American poet Phillis Wheatley, who raised her voice against an expansive tyranny in her call for emancipation; patriots and presidents such as Paul Revere and George Washington; the Mohawk leader Thayendanegea, who allied with the British in an effort to retain Indigenous sovereignty; and iconic contributors to the Declaration of Independence John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Together, these artworks acknowledge multiple complex and intertwined histories that continue to resonate in the United States and beyond, some two and half centuries later. This special installation is made possible by Kimba Wood and Frank Richardson.
  →  Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval.

RAW: This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outside of natural ecosystems but are profoundly interdependent with the rest of the natural world. Dating from around 1525 to 1775, these paintings trace a shift in European representations of nature from expressions of embeddedness toward assertions of dominance, showing how our conceptions of nature are themselves not “natural” but instead are culturally constructed. The artists’ depictions shape viewers’ experiences of the environments they portray. Overlapping themes include ancient myths that personify natural forces; the relationship between art and science through direct observation of nature; and idealizations of agricultural labor that upheld class, gender, and colonial power structures. As physical objects, paintings alter natural resources like flax, wood, and rare minerals; in turn, these materials continue to have lives of their own. This special installation is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation.
  →  Painting through landscape, environment and material relations.

RAW: Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotation, shows treasured Korean traditions. By presenting them in ways that give us a fuller picture into each object’s unique form, Flip Sides provides insight into the construction and function of works in metal, wood, ceramic, textiles, and lacquer. A Buddhist sculpture that held offerings inside, a porcelain jar of striking openwork that conceals an inner chamber, a bronze mirror with a delicately incised image, and a king’s lacquer letter box with linings featuring impressive calligraphy are among the featured objects in Flip Sides. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: March 16–October 18, 2026 Rotation 2: October 31, 2026–May 31, 2027 The exhibition is made possible by The Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art.
  →  Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects.

RAW: From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s extensive and rich history of ceramic art through approximately 350 extraordinary works presented in themes that offer fresh perspectives on the diverse forms and functions, from everyday tableware to vessels created for tea masters and elite households to modern sculptural compositions. Japan’s earliest pottery dates back more than 12,000 years, when makers shaped and fired clay vessels for cooking and storage—objects that bear the traces of these early potters’ hands. Expertise transmitted from China and Korea in medieval times facilitated the development of new Japanese techniques and wares. Over time, the reverence for prized ceramics led to finding beauty even through damage. Japanese artisans developed kintsugi, the art of repairing broken ceramics with gold lacquer, restoring the damaged object’s function while making it even more precious and valuable. Japanese cuisine and dining aesthetics inspired vessels designed to harmonize with the color and texture of food. Many porcelains from the Edo period (1615–1868) are embellished with motifs drawn from the natural world or symbols of happiness, longevity, and good fortune. Featuring refined ceramics and other artworks from the Museum’s Harry G. C. Packard Collection, this exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of this landmark acquisition that established the foundation of The Met’s Japanese art holdings. By placing ceramics in dialogue with related art forms—including lacquers, textiles, paintings, and woodblock prints—the display inspires curiosity about the multiverse of Japanese ceramics and its broader cultural
  →  Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form.

RAW: Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302). The intimate and enchanting gallery with exposed brick walls and arched portals was unveiled in the year 2000 after a renovation that reclaimed the space beneath the Museum’s Grand Staircase. In this transhistorical presentation, the Byzantine Crypt’s religious and secular jewelry, textiles, ivory objects, vessels, and architectural sculpture from Early Christian and Coptic monastic sites are complemented and enriched by contemporary sculptures, works on paper, and installations from the 1960s to present day that similarly serve as memorials, reliquaries, and tokens to ward off evil. As part of the exhibition, Adrian Piper’s editioned work Everything #4 invites viewers to contemplate its otherworldly statement and their reflection in a variety of contexts. It will be installed in the heart of the Byzantine Crypt and five other spaces across The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, listed below. The exhibition is made possible by The Jaharis Family Foundation.
  →  Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that animal’s year. February 17, 2026, marks the beginning of the Year of the Horse, a creature symbolizing power, strength, and vitality. Celebrating the Year of the Horse brings together works from The Met collection to explore the horse’s enduring nature and vital place in Chinese civilization. Domesticated in prehistoric times, this animal has shaped nearly every facet of life—from agriculture and transportation to trade, warfare, sport, and entertainment. In ancient China, horse-drawn chariots transported military commanders and the social elite, while in the Tang dynasty (618–907), tall and robust horses came to embody the strength of the state and cosmopolitan spirit of the empire. In Chinese popular culture, horses are among the most celebrated animals, and in the spiritual realm they serve as noble mounts for divine guardians believed to bring joy, protection, and prosperity to the household. This presentation, featuring a range of expressive works in ceramics, glass, jade, and metal, and woodblock prints, illuminates these roles while celebrating the horse’s power, vitality, and spirit.
  →  Asian works for the lunar new year.

RAW: In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter in the history of art. The first ever exhibition about the Savonnerie in the United States, A King’s Carpet sheds new light on The Met’s three carpets made as part of this ambitious scheme. Held in the iconic Wrightsman Galleries, it will explore the tumultuous history of these Baroque masterpieces from their conception and the harsh realities of their production to their dispersal after the French Revolution. A project of unheard-of scale, the weaving of the 92 carpets necessitated the establishment of massive workshops and an expendable workforce of orphans and adolescents with sharp eyesight and nimble fingers. Woven over 20 years, the carpets were never rolled out in the space for which they were intended, Louis XIV having turned his attention away from the Louvre to Versailles. During the Revolution, many were stripped of their royal emblems or sold, some eventually finding new homes with prominent American collectors such as J. P. Morgan and Alva Vanderbilt. This exhibition will present four complete carpets along with a selection of fragments, attesting to the scheme’s segmentation and dispersal. In addition, visitors will be able to observe textile conservators at work in an in-gallery temporary conservation studio as they repair and strengthen one of these monumental textiles.
  →  Savonnerie carpets and French court display.

RAW: Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography promised to capture the sky with unprecedented immediacy and detail, yet early technical limitations fell short of that promise. Photographers responded by painting in skies or manually combining negatives, until chemical and optical advances at the start of the 20th century made possible cloudscape photographs that rivaled paintings. Chasing Clouds follows the remarkable story of how the sky was represented during this period, tracing the depiction of clouds in works that balanced changing artistic conventions with scientific discoveries and new technologies. Opening with oil sketches from the start of the 19th century, and including paintings, drawings, and photographs from the following decades, it comes full circle in the 1920s with American photographer Alfred Stieglitz’s Equivalents, a series of cloud studies that reconciles poetic feeling and naturalistic depiction. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography.

RAW: Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in the United States—is activated by Hartt’s architectural intervention, bringing past and present into conversation. For this site-specific commission—consisting of two Direct View LED screens and echoing imagery from the panorama itself—Hartt draws on direct documentation of Versailles, the cinematic language of French New Wave Cinema, and photographs of the palace grounds by Eugene Atget to reshape the experience of The Met’s circular gallery space housing the work. Filmed at locations from Versailles to the Boulevard Périphérique and throughout the center of Paris, Peripheries explores the constant reinvention of the French capital. Hartt’s installation reconfigures movement and angles of vision, augmented through an original score by composer and musician Jeff Parker. Visitors are visually lured away from established centers within the city toward the margins—or the “peripheries”—where alternative perspectives and histories are often relegated. By engaging directly with Vanderlyn's panorama, Hartt has created a space to reconsider not only the historical painting itself but also examine ideas of representation and cultural memory within a living environment. The exhibition is made possible by Jan and Warren Adelson in honor of Eugénie Prendergast, and The Modern Circle.
  →  Architecture, migration and the edges of cities.

RAW: The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the United States. While serving in the U.S. Army as one of the Ritchie Boys, a specialized unit of German-speaking soldiers, Lewen arrived at the Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation in 1945. The Parade is rooted in the artist’s experience of these events as well as his coming of age during the tumultuous years when, as he reflected later, the parades after World War I gave way to the death marches of World War II. Experienced together as a sequence, the drawings carry viewers from military pageantry to conflict, devastation, and mourning through the cumulative force of their imagery. The power of The Parade lies not only in its historical origins but in its ability to speak across generations with urgency, asking viewers to confront the persistent cycles of violence that continue to shape our world. The exhibition's title, There Are No Words, is inspired by Lewen's own description of the format of The Parade as a wordless novel in which he explained: "there are no words . . . just the picture itself is the narrative." At the same time, the title reflects his conviction that the horrors of war ultimately defy language and description.
  →  Wordless picture sequence on war.

RAW: Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as central to the innovations of art from the mid-20th century onwards. This exhibition continues and amplifies this reevaluation, on their own terms and in dynamic relation to each other. Drawing its subtitle, Past Continuous, from a 1976 painting by Krasner, the exhibition traces parallel lives and practices—forged first by lived experience, then shadowed by memory. Krasner, born in Brooklyn to Jewish immigrant parents from what is now Ukraine, and Pollock, raised in Los Angeles and the American West, brought specific geographies and inheritances into a shared artistic context. Their early paths traced distinct strands of American modernism that would ultimately converge in the rupture known as Abstract Expressionism, a movement that valued the translation of inner feelings into dramatic visual action. In the wake of World War II, artists asked why art mattered and what it could be. For Pollock, his breakthrough was the “drip” technique, a radical mode of painting that flourished in a condensed but prolific period. Krasner’s varied practice was typified by ceaseless explorations of abstraction, often cued by her abiding interest in the possibilities of nature and color. Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous is the first major New York presentation devoted to either artist in more than 20 years. Featuring over 120 works, it is the first exhibition to look at the full arc of their careers together. The exhibition is made possible by Kenneth C. Griffin and Griffin Catalyst, Marina Kellen French, and the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation.
  →  Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence.

RAW: Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolve into atmospheric blur. What Bassman did not show she evoked in her expressive prints—products of darkroom distortion, achieved with tissues, brushes, and bleach. In an earlier era, such an approach might have precluded commercial success. Bassman’s timing, though, could not have been better; in 1941, at age 24, she took a design job at Harper’s Bazaar, where a group of artists and editors were then reimagining how the magazine should look. With them, she helped introduce an avant-garde sensibility to the American newsstand, advancing new possibilities for photography in print. In works from a remarkable gift to The Met, Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond highlights the influence and audacity of her magazine career. The exhibition flips between the New School in Manhattan and the “New Look” in Paris, charting Bassman’s course from design apprentice to art director and accomplished photographer. Its rare vintage prints, collages, and maquettes lay out an unlikely history of modernism, refashioned for the pages of the popular press. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar.

RAW: Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years, he achieved such profound success as a painter, designer, and architect that he was regarded as the pinnacle of artistic perfection for centuries after his death. Raphael: Sublime Poetry is the first comprehensive exhibition on Raphael in the United States, bringing together more than 170 of the artist’s greatest masterpieces and rarely seen treasures to illuminate the brilliance of Raphael’s extraordinary creativity. The son of a painter and poet, Raphael engaged with the foremost writers and thinkers of his age in Rome, displaying a poetic sensibility that captivated his peers and generations that followed. Follow the full breadth of his life and career, from his origins in Urbino to his rise in Florence, where he began to emerge as a peer of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, to his final, prolific decade at the papal court in Rome. To underscore the range of his genius, this presentation brings together important drawings, paintings, and tapestries from public and private collections across Europe and the United States, many of which have never been shown together. With particular attention to Raphael’s portrayal of women—from his use of nude female models for the first time in Western art to his tender depictions of the Madonna and Child—and recent scientific discoveries made using state-of-the-art technology, this exhibition offers a rare opportunity to experience the genius of an artist who helped shape the course of art history. Wolfe, Gilbert and Ildiko Butler, Debra and Leon Black, Mark Gorenberg and Cathrin Stickney, the Robert Lehman Foundation, Dinah Seiver
  →  First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael.

RAW: Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, which he collaboratively defined both publicly and behind the scenes. Morrison’s influence as an abstract expressionist painter began in 1943 when he traveled from rural Minnesota to New York City to study at the Art Students League on a scholarship. Immersing himself in the city’s vibrant cultural scenes, he studied painting and drawing, contributed to numerous exhibitions and publications, and openly challenged the mainstream art establishment of his generation. In New York, Morrison formed meaningful connections with artists including Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Lois Dodd, and Louise Nevelson, among others. His deep appreciation for urban life—specifically, industrial landscapes, jazz, and literature—permanently shaped his artistic practice and imagery. This exhibition explores how Morrison’s aesthetic inspiration and future trajectory drew from his love of New York, which he called a “Magical City.” Featuring 25 of his most important paintings and drawings from this early period, the exhibition culminates in his Horizon series. It also features rare archival materials that place Morrison at the heart of the Abstract Expressionist movement in 1940s and 1950s New York.
  →  Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work.

RAW: The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also adopted it as an experimental format for their art. Fanmania investigates why avant-garde artists incorporated fans into their work and sheds light on themes of gender, courtship, consumerism, and appropriation. Artists were attracted to the semicircular form for myriad reasons, including fascination with fans from Asia and Spain, commercial ambition, and their interest in formal and technical innovation. Displaying more than 75 artworks from across The Met collection, this multimedia exhibition features painted and printed fans from Europe and Asia as well as artworks that depict women wielding fans to explore the phenomenon of “fanmania.”
  →  Folding fans as fashion and display.

RAW: Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), and their mother, Mary Newbold Sargent (1826–1906). As the artistic family traveled seasonally through Europe, Mary encouraged her children’s creative aspirations. The siblings had a close relationship and often sketched and painted side by side. As John Singer Sargent’s bold portraits increasingly garnered critical attention, his younger sister Emily supported his career while building a body of work of her own that remained largely unseen. Drawn entirely from The Met collection, Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family takes a close look at their art and explores how paths diverged for daughter and son, revealing the challenges women artists faced in the late 19th century. Intended as a complement to The Met’s Sargent and Paris, this exhibition celebrates the recent gift—from the artists’ heirs—of 26 Emily Sargent watercolors, which will be making their debut. This generous gift continues a long legacy of family giving that formed the foundation of the Museum’s extensive Sargent holdings. Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund.
  →  Watercolours by Sargent's sister.

RAW: Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-funded initiative that provides free scientific support to art institutions nationwide. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close presents seven of these impressive drawings for the first time in forty years, spotlighting the multiyear collaboration between The Met and the Municipal Archives as well as the Museum’s ongoing commitment to sharing resources with New York City institutions. Designed by German engineer John A. Roebling (1806–1869), a pioneer in steel-wire rope technology used for suspension bridges, the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 by his son, Washington A. Roebling (1837–1926), with help from skilled assistants. After Washington became ill, his wife, Emily Warren Roebling (1843–1903), took over supervision of the project and played a crucial role in its success. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close offers fresh insights into the physical properties of these monumental drawings, informing future conservation treatments. It also highlights science’s vital role in uncovering new narratives and providing unprecedented access to artists’ creative processes. This special installation is made possible by the Mellon Foundation.
  →  Bridge construction in drawings and prints.

RAW: American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned recognizable subjects into wonderfully mysterious compositions. Introduced in the period between Dada and Surrealism, the rayographs’ transformative, magical qualities led the poet Tristan Tzara to describe them as capturing the moments “when objects dream.” The exhibition will be the first to situate this signature accomplishment in relation to Man Ray’s larger body of work of the 1910s and 1920s. Drawing from the collections of The Met and more than 50 U.S. and international lenders, the exhibition will feature approximately 60 rayographs and 100 paintings, objects, prints, drawings, films, and photographs—including some of the artist’s most iconic works—to highlight the central role of the rayograph in Man Ray’s boundary-breaking practice. “Before my eyes an image began to form, not quite a simple silhouette of the objects as in a straight photograph, but distorted and refracted … In the morning I examined the results, pinning a couple of the Rayographs—as I decided to call them—on the wall. They looked startlingly new and mysterious.” — Man Ray The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation. Goldsmith Foundation, The Daniel and Estrellita Brodsky Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Krantz and Harvey Sawikin, and Schiaparelli.
  →  Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. Each is believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that year. January 29, 2025, marks the beginning of the Year of the Snake, a creature characterized as alert, calm, and smart. Celebrating the Year of the Snake presents a remarkable selection of works drawn from the Museum’s collection illustrating the significant role that the snake plays in Chinese culture, including a 3,000-year-old bronze ritual vessel with a spout formed by joined snakes’ heads, a 13th-century pottery figure of a mischievously smiling snake, and an 18th-century exquisitely painted porcelain cup portraying a scene from the “Legend of the White Snake,” a popular folktale of love and romance between humans and fantastic creatures.
  →  Asian works featuring the snake.

RAW: Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to create and affirm their femme identities, exchanging photographs at gatherings or sharing them by mail. These snapshots—some candid, others playfully performative—were rediscovered at a Manhattan flea market in 2004 and have come to be known as the Casa Susanna photographs. The exhibition also features issues of Transvestia, an underground magazine that published the photographs along with fiction, poetry, makeup and clothing advice, and autobiographical essays by members of the community. During this period, most cross-dressers lived in isolation and shame. The exhibition presents new research into the double lives cross-dressers led as married men with established careers. The photographs also bring to light the type of woman they aimed to embody—such as the “girl next door,” the respectable housewife, the matron—a middle-class ideal of femininity that was both liberating and limiting. Casa Susanna offers insight into a significant pre-Stonewall cross-dressing scene, inviting visitors to understand this world and its connection to the lives of transgender people today. The exhibition is organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario and Les Rencontres d’Arles in collaboration with The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs.

RAW: In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 gods with many overlapping forms and traits. Subtle visual cues like what a figure wore, how they posed, or the symbols they carried helped identify them and their roles. Divine Egypt brings together almost 250 works of art and objects, many of them on loan from institutions such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Musée du Louvre, Paris, and the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, Copenhagen, to examine the imagery associated with the most important deities in ancient Egypt’s massive body of gods. Depictions of the stately falcon-headed Horus, the lion-headed Sakhmet, and the serene, shrouded Osiris reveal the striking ways the kings and people of ancient Egypt recognized and interacted with their gods. While the king had a daily direct relationship with the gods in the inner sanctuaries of great temples, people without such access found ways to connect with their gods through rituals, offerings, and objects of private devotion. This immersive look at how deities were depicted reveals the many roles they played in people’s lives, providing them with meaning in front of life’s uncertainties and the permanence of death. The exhibition is made possible by The John A. Moran Charitable Trust. Cullman, Alaina and Stirling Larkin, and Norby Anderson. The catalogue is made possible by the Kelekian Fund. Cotti.
  →  Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities.

RAW: Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome aspect in this guise. The seventh- to twenty-first-century works in this exhibition trace his depiction across the Indian subcontinent, the Himalayas, and Southeast Asia. Featuring 24 works across sculptures, paintings, musical instruments, ritual implements, and photography, the exhibition emphasizes the vitality and exuberance of Ganesha as the bringer of new beginnings. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: November 19, 2022–June 11, 2023 Rotation 2: June 17, 2023–June 11, 2024 Rotation 3: June 13, 2024–January 4, 2026
  →  Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art.

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":106,"title":"Terry Winters: Vitalized Geometry","raw":"Terry Winters: Vitalized Geometry presents 44 prints and works on paper by the American artist Terry Winters, who draws inspiration from mathematical systems and structures of the natural world. Celebrating two groups of gifts to the Menil and organized in close consultation with the artist, the career-spanning presentation explores the importance of printmaking to Winters’s practice and its dialogue with other forms of making. Each medium is an instrument. Almost in a musical sense, meant to be played; and each affects the developing imagery. How they look, how they feel, and what they mean is conditioned by the materials and procedures. Media is used to embody an image actual size, as vitalized geometry—hopefully with a sense of life. Terry Winters: Vitalized Geometry is curated by Sophie Asakura, Curatorial Associate, The Menil Collection. Two gifts to the museum will be displayed in an exhibition tracing nearly four decades of the artist's works"}
{"i":107,"title":"How to Make an Exhibition: The Story of Jermayne MacAgy","raw":"This exhibition honors the impact and legacy of the late San Francisco- and Houston-based curator, art historian, and museum director Jermayne MacAgy (1914–1964), who was renowned for her dynamic and groundbreaking installations and innovative approach to curating. MacAgy was among a vanguard of professionals in the 20th century who transformed the art museum into a site of conversation and learning. Working closely with Menil Collection founders John and Dominique de Menil from the mid-1950s until her death a decade later, she deeply impacted the future museum. She encouraged the couple to build a teaching collection and publicly exhibit their art using display techniques that encouraged curiosity and engagement. Dominique de Menil once recalled that MacAgy’s installations created an “atmospheric miracle, which set the work of art in such a light that it would shine and talk to anyone who would care to listen.” How to Make an Exhibition: The Story of Jermayne MacAgy is curated by Michelle White, Senior Curator. Johnson; Susan and Francois de Menil; Betty Moody; Fan and Peter Morris; Carol and David Neuberger; Leslie and Shannon Sasser; MaryRoss Taylor; Wawro-Gray Family Foundation; Morris A. Weiner and Leslie Field; and the City of Houston through Houston Arts Alliance."}
{"i":108,"title":"D’MBA: Beauty, Desire, and Collecting an African Mask","raw":"D’MBA: Beauty, Desire, and Collecting an African Mask is a focused research and exhibition project examining the large wood headdresses commonly referred to as d’mba, nimba, or yamban among the Baga, Nalu, and neighboring peoples living in Guinea, West Africa. Worn and performed by men for ceremonies and public celebrations that mark significant moments in the cycle of life, the d’mba headdress is the sculptural embodiment of female personhood, sustenance (agricultural and maternal), physical beauty, and generational continuity. During the mid-20th century, at the height of the international market for African art in the United States, the d’mba became one of the objects most coveted by collectors. D’MBA unites for the first time a significant group of headdresses on loan from several art museums in the United States, including Art Institute of Chicago, Baltimore Museum of Art, Davis Museum at Wellesley College, National Museum of African Art, and Yale University Art Gallery. The exhibition of these headdresses, which were acquired during the late 1950s by prominent collectors in the United States, occasions a rare opportunity to pursue a thorough study of these icons of African art at the intersections of mask-making, colonial art education, independence-era cultural politics and religious iconoclasm in Guinea, and the international art market. Concurrently, in the museum’s galleries of African art, the Menil will present Baga Nimba, 2020. The seven-foot tall, gold leaf sculpture by Houston-based Nigerian artist Adeniyi (“Niyi”) Olagunju epitomizes the Pan-African and Diasporic significance of the d’mba headdress from Guinea and its reinvention as a global art form. D’MBA: Beauty, Desire, and Collecting an African Mask is curated by Paul R. Davis, Curator of Collections, The Menil Collection."}
{"i":109,"title":"Sedona Surreal: Max Ernst and Dorothea Tanning in the American Southwest","raw":"In 1946, Max Ernst and Dorothea Tanning left New York City, then the center of the Euro-American art world, for Sedona, Arizona. Over the next ten years, they created some of the most significant works of their careers in this small desert town. Sedona Surreal will reunite the paintings, sculptures, and other artworks that they made there, exploring the construction of artistic modernism far from a large urban center. It will be the first museum exhibition devoted to Ernst and Tanning’s pivotal time in the Southwest. Sedona Surreal: Max Ernst and Dorothea Tanning in the American Southwest is curated by Natalie Dupêcher, Associate Curator of Modern Art, The Menil Collection."}
{"i":110,"title":"Photography from The Menil Collection: Curated by Wendy Watriss","raw":"Photography from The Menil Collection: Curated by Wendy Watriss is a presentation of documentary-style photographs that underscore how images can ignite conversation about diverse social realities. The exhibition features work by Larry Burrows, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Bruce Davidson, Danny Lyon, and Charles Moore, among other significant practitioners in the 20th century who explored varied approaches to capturing everyday moments, from the mundane to the monumental. The photographs on display were selected by Houston-based photographer and award-winning photojournalist Wendy Watriss. With her late husband, photographer Fred Baldwin, Watriss cofounded FotoFest, a contemporary arts organization whose biennial, city-wide celebration of international photography, established in 1986, transformed Houston’s cultural landscape, globally elevating the medium’s significance. Photography from The Menil Collection: Curated by Wendy Watriss is presented in celebration of the 40th anniversary of the Fotofest biennial in 2026. Wendy Watriss is an esteemed Houston-based photographer, curator, and photojournalist. She was the first woman to win the World Press Feature Award and the Leica Oskar Barnack Award, for her 1982 photo essay on Agent Orange published in Life. In the late 1960s, Watriss began her career as a freelance photographer and writer for publications like Newsweek and the New York Times. With her late husband, photographer Fred Baldwin, she co-founded FotoFest. In 1986 the organization hosted its first biyearly city-wide celebration of international photography and transformed Houston’s cultural landscape, elevating the medium’s significance globally. Watriss served as the Artistic Director of FotoFest for 26 years, curating and organizing more than sixty international and US exhibitions. She has received numerous awards, and her photographs are found in collections internationally, including the Museum of Fine Arts Houston; Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Fort W"}
{"i":111,"title":"The Gift of Drawing: Cy Twombly","raw":"This presentation featured 27 works from a gift to the museum by the Cy Twombly Foundation. The works highlighted in the exhibition covered 30 years of the artist’s activity, from the 1950s to the 1980s and featured a broad range of materials, from graphite to oil paint; techniques such as drawing and collage; and themes that are fundamental to his entire practice, such as classical antiquity, eroticism, and nature. The works in this show, a number of which were on view for the first time, included a series of abstract landscapes from the 1980s, two untitled works from 1970 that resemble the artist’s “blackboard paintings” on view at the Cy Twombly Gallery, and Narcissus, 1975, a collage of paper, with oil, charcoal, and wax crayon on paper with the title of the work written in large capital letters across the bottom. The Gift of Drawing: Cy Twombly was curated by Edouard Kopp, John R. Eckel, Jr. Foundation Chief Curator, Menil Drawing Institute. A selection of works gifted to the museum by the Cy Twombly Foundation will open at the Menil Drawing Institute on March 27, 2026"}
{"i":112,"title":"Wall Drawing Series: Gladys Nilsson","raw":"Gladys Nilsson’s site-specific work titled Drawing presented fantastical, hybrid beings all surrounding one monumental figure engaged in the act of drawing. A complex, garland-like arrangement of black-and-white characters soared overhead, entangled with one another, while the bystanders below, set apart by gentle color-toning, observed the scene. The bustling composition was marked by deft and fluid lines using a candy-colored palette of crayon, graphite, and acrylic paint and marker pens. Nilsson’s whimsical creation embodied her distinctive sense of humor and levity while taking viewers on a journey through the peculiar beauty of the human experience. Everything I’m interested in looking at usually involves the figure in one way or another. I’m always collecting interactions between folks that occur in daily life, and these filter into my work. The title of the piece is simply ‘Drawing.’ The idea is that the main figure is contained in this space, creating these figures, which take a life of their own. Born in Chicago in 1940, Gladys Nilsson studied painting at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Since 1966, Nilsson’s work has been the subject of over 50 solo exhibitions, including sixteen at Phyllis Kind Gallery (1970–1979, 1981–1983, 1987, 1991, and 1994, Chicago and New York), and two at The Candy Store (1971 and 1987, Folsom, California). Her work also has been featured in many important museum exhibitions, such as: Human Concern/Personal Torment (1969, Whitney Museum of American Art); Who Chicago? (1981, Camden Art Center, London); Parallel Visions: Modern Artists and Outsider Art (1992, Los Angeles County Museum of Art); Chicago Imagists (2011, Madison Museum of Contemporary Art, Wisconsin); and What Nerve! Alternative Figures in American Art, 1960 to the Present (2014, Museum of Art, Rhode Island School of Design, Providence). Nilsson is represented in the collections of major museums around the world, including: the Art Institute of Chicago; the L"}
{"i":113,"title":"From the Sea","raw":"In the main building's hallway galleries, explore an installation of artworks related to the sea."}
{"i":114,"title":"Foyer Installation: Pop Art","raw":"Explore a selection of Pop art from the museum's permanent collection in the foyer. Works by Robert Indiana, Ed Ruscha, and Andy Warhol are on display."}
{"i":115,"title":"Robert Rauschenberg: Fabric Works of the 1970s","raw":"On the occasion of the one hundredth birthday of American artist Robert Rauschenberg (1925–2008), the Menil Collection presented an exhibition that looked at the artist’s expressive and conceptual use of fabric as a sculptural medium. Robert Rauschenberg: Fabric Works of the 1970s focused on three groups of works from the 1970s that presented his use of cloth: Venetians, 1972–73, Jammers, 1975–76, and Hoarfrosts, 1974–76. It also explored how Rauschenberg’s attention to textiles relates to his career-long interest in the intersection of art with choreography, theater, and the body. This exhibition is curated by Michelle White, Senior Curator, The Menil Collection. This exhibition was organized with support from the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation. The Menil Collection joined an international roster of institutions commemorating the artist’s 100th birthday. Offodile II; Leslie and Shannon Sasser; Bill Stewart and Johanna Brassert; Mark Wawro and Melanie Gray; and the City of Houston through Houston Arts Alliance. The exhibition is organized for the one hundredth birthday of the Texas-born artist in collaboration with the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation."}
{"i":116,"title":"Lines of Resolution: Drawing at the Advent of Television and Video","raw":"Lines of Resolution: Drawing at the Advent of Television and Video explored the relationship between drawing, television, and video from the late 1950s into the 1980s. Personal electronics became widely available during this era and soon made their way into artists’ studios. These electric screens became a source of artistic imagery, a surface for inscription, and a device that could be manipulated to generate entirely new kinds of drawing. This exhibition featured works by twenty-five artists, including drawings, video, mixed media sculpture, and an immersive installation. Exhibited artists included Anne Bean, Teresa Burga, Jaime Davidovich, Walter De Maria, Catherine Elwes, Dov Eylath, Anna Bella Geiger, Sanja Iveković, K.O. Götz, Philip Guston, Joan Jonas, Suzy Lake, Mario Merz, Dennis Oppenheim, Nam June Paik, Letícia Parente, Howardena Pindell, Adrian Piper, Sigmar Polke, Robert Rauschenberg, Ulrike Rosenbach, Gerry Schum, Richard Serra, Mimi Smith, Nina Sobell, and Ursula Wevers. This exhibition was co-curated by Dr. Anna Lovatt, Associate Professor of Art History at Southern Methodist University, and Kelly Montana, Associate Curator, Menil Drawing Institute. The exhibition at the Menil Drawing Institute explores the relationship between drawing, television, and video from the late 1950s into the 1980s."}
{"i":117,"title":"The Space Between Looking and Loving: Francesca Fuchs and the de Menil House","raw":"In 1970, John de Menil wrote to German classical archeologist Dr. Werner Fuchs (1927–2016) seeking to identify the subject of a Roman male torso in his collection. Forty-nine years later, Francesca Fuchs’s discovery of black-and-white photographs depicting the marble torso in her father’s personal effects in Oxford, England, led the Houston-based painter to find the original letter in the museum archives. This exhibition was the artist’s response to the unanswered letter and unexpected familial connection. Featuring new work by Fuchs and selections from the museum’s collection and archives, the exhibition explored the affective power and relational histories of objects in domestic settings, especially those of the de Menil house in Houston, Texas. Born in London and raised in Münster, Germany, Francesca Fuchs moved to Houston in 1996 as a fellow for the Core Program at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. During her thirty-year career in Houston and internationally, Fuchs’s work has been a process of honing extended reflections on the nature of everyday objects and illuminating their fundamental truths. Her portraits of objects are re-paintings of paintings, prints, photographs that resist and reconsider their accepted signals of cultural importance, particularly as they relate to the intimacies of life. Fuchs’s work has been included in exhibitions organized by the Institute of Contemporary Art, London; The Whitechapel Art Gallery, London; The Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth; Contemporary Arts Museum Houston; Art Museum of Southeast Texas, Beaumont; The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; The Suburban, Oak Park, Illinois. In 2018, Art League Houston recognized Fuchs as Texas Artist of the Year. The Space Between Looking and Loving: Francesca Fuchs and the de Menil House was curated by Paul R. Davis, Curator of Collections, The Menil Collection."}
{"i":118,"title":"Foyer Installation: René Magritte","raw":"An installation in the main building foyer celebrates the Menil Collection’s extraordinary holdings of work by the Belgian Surrealist, René Magritte (1898–1967). It focuses on a core group of paintings from the 1950s and ’60s, in which the artist rendered impossible situations with virtuosic precision and uncanny clarity. Now regarded as icons of the Surrealist movement, these paintings were purchased within a couple years of their making by the museum’s founders, John and Dominique de Menil. The de Menils were Magritte’s most important champions in the United States. Beginning in the late 1940s, they bought dozens of his artworks, lent to and organized major exhibitions of his work, and led the publication of a significant, six-volume catalogue raisonné. Through these and other activities, the de Menils fundamentally shaped the artist’s reception and reputation in the postwar American art world. In 2024, the Menil Collection continued this legacy by being a major lender to the first-ever retrospective of Magritte’s work in Australia, including the loan of the paintings in this display."}
{"i":119,"title":"Animals, Monsters, and Creatures from the Collection","raw":"This display in the west hallway takes its inspiration from Constant Companions, an exhibition curated by Dominique de Menil and Jermayne MacAgy for the University of St. Thomas in 1964. The show explored monsters in art— “ambivalent, protective, or threatening,” as Dominique wrote in her introduction to the catalogue. She brought a particular interest to animal-human hybrids, their iconography and “complex and ambivalent” meaning. Crossing time periods and geographies, Constant Companions encompassed 300 objects, from paintings, bronze sculptures, and carvings to book illustrations, icons, and vases. The exhibition was met with wide acclaim, covered by NBC News, The New York Times, Vogue, Art in America, and Newsweek, which deemed it “one of the year’s best off-beat shows.” Several outlets noted that it opened to the public one day before Halloween—mounting, in the words of a Houston Chronicle reviewer, “an artistic contribution to these days of black cats and cauldron bubbles.” For the dramatic installation, the gallery space was painted black and partitioned like a maze, with artworks brightly spot lit in cave-like vestibules. Writing to a friend in advance of the opening, John de Menil described it as “an exhibition of monsters, evil or endearing, from 1,000 B.C. to yesterday morning, from Egypt to Peru, from Italy to Siberia.” According to the Houston Post, it became known among locals as simply “The Monster Show.” Paying homage to the 1960s show, this display brings together a selection of paintings and objects that highlight artists’ perennial fascination with fantastic and monstrous creatures."}
{"i":120,"title":"What drawing can be: four responses","raw":"Four artists stretch the boundaries of drawing and offer new characterizations of what drawing can be. This exhibition featured site-specific installations by Jillian Conrad, Teresita Fernández, Tony Lewis, and Constantin Luser. Each artist had an individual gallery space to explore the experimental potential of the medium, its boundaries, and its connections with other arts, such as sculpture and architecture. Drawings that expand beyond a sheet of paper have a rich history within the 20th century. Examples include Alexander Calder and his wire sculptures from the 1930s and artists of the 1960s, like Dorothea Rockburne and Sol LeWitt, who pushed the parameters of the medium to include text, folded papers, and wall drawings. Eluding labels and limitations, whether they be in terms of material, scale, or ephemerality, the artists in this exhibition will reveal the continuing relevance, agility, and vitality of drawing and how it remains a rich and generative area of investigation. Jillian Conrad (b. 1970) explores questions of materiality and intangibility. Her sculptures and works on paper often engage aspects of the landscape and everyday materials with the goal of locating thresholds between the visible and invisible. Conrad lives and works in Houston. Teresita Fernández (b. 1968) is known for her public installations and large-scale sculptures. Her art offers an expansive view of the landscape, forefronting questions of geography, cartography, cosmology, and political states. Fernandez lives and works in Brooklyn."}
{"i":121,"title":"Wall Drawing Series: Ronny Quevedo","raw":"Wall Drawing Series: Ronny Quevedo featured a site-specific work by New York-based artist Ronny Quevedo (b. 1981). The 36-foot triptych, C A R A A C A R A, 2024, explored the relationship between origin, transfer, and translation, with each panel of the composition indicating a different step in the artist’s process. Quevedo uses drawing, particularly schematic renderings, in his practice to explore the visual languages of abstraction, cartography, cosmology, and sport from across the Americas. The artist builds upon these interests with interconnected diagrams and markings spread across his works to express the complex relationships between body, home, field, globe, and celestial spaces. The title, C A R A A C A R A, or “face-to-face\" in English, derives from the pattern paper Quevedo uses in his work—the “face,” or visible side of the fabric in sewing patterns. More abstractly, the artist sees it as a sense of encountering or confrontation that results when cultures or worlds collide. By using dressmaker wax paper as his foremost material, Quevedo can reproduce images in a way that shows the transformation from the initial drawing to its conclusion, while simultaneously connecting with his mother’s history as a seamstress. The first panel of the work was created by smoothing dressmaker wax paper against the surface and imprinting marks by pressing into the wall. For the second panel, that same paper was pressed against the wall using heat, suffusing the surface with blue pigmented wax. In the third panel, the creased and eroded paper is applied directly onto the surface of the wall. Using mica and layers of chalk to intensify the piece, Quevedo echoes the movements and markings created in the initial two panels to form a visual allegory of what we inherit from the past, how it shapes our present, and what we will pass down to the future. Ronny Quevedo received his BFA from Cooper Union in 2003 and his MFA from the Yale School of Art in 2013. From 2012 to 2014, he"}
{"i":122,"title":"Joe Overstreet: Taking Flight","raw":"Joe Overstreet: Taking Flight was the first major museum exhibition in thirty years devoted to the work of this pioneering abstract painter. Renowned for his innovative approach to non-representational painting, American artist Joe Overstreet (1933–2019) consistently sought to intertwine abstraction and social politics. This presentation included his landmark Flight Pattern series of radially suspended paintings from the early 1970s, as well as related bodies of work from the 1960s and 1990s. Overstreet made a significant contribution to postwar art, positioning abstraction as an expansive tool for exploring the idea of freedom and the Black experience in the United States. Joe Overstreet: Taking Flight was organized by Natalie Dupêcher, Associate Curator of Modern Art, The Menil Collection, in collaboration with the artist’s estate. Houston museum highlights three defining series in the artist’s career."}
{"i":123,"title":"Tacita Dean: Blind Folly","raw":"Tacita Dean: Blind Folly was the first major museum survey in the United States of work by British European visual artist Tacita Dean (b. 1965). The exhibition, organized in close collaboration with Dean, spotlighted her career-defining approach to creating art through unmediated and chance-based drawing processes across a variety of mediums, from film to printmaking. Blind Folly, the show’s title, reflects Dean’s desire to let the behavior of her mediums dictate the results of her work. For the artist, the playful and old-fashioned phrase connoting foolishness, “blind folly,” represents the role chance and fate play in the creative act. The exhibition included new works inspired by the artist’s time in Houston, some following her residency at the Menil’s Cy Twombly Gallery, alongside Dean’s monumental blackboard drawings and groups of rarely shown drawings from her studio on paper, found postcards, and albumen photographs. A separate gallery presented a rotating group of her 16mm films. Claes Oldenburg Draws Blueberry Pie This intimate portrait of the American Pop artist Claes Oldenburg (1929–2022) celebrates the act and pleasure of drawing. One of several films by Dean that examines the creative practice of other artists, it captures the virtuosic draughtsman at work in his Manhattan studio."}
{"i":124,"title":"Out of Thin Air: Emerging Forms","raw":"Out of Thin Air: Emerging Forms examined drawing as a meditative process that invites the gradual appearance of indeterminate images. Selected from the Menil’s permanent collection, this display of artworks dating from the late 1930s to the present share a visual language of emerging forms. Not fully resolved or strictly defined, the works in this exhibition are open, suggestive images that seem as though they are still in the process of becoming. Artists have embraced this type of practice for myriad reasons that range from an unlocking of the subconscious to an exploration of nature’s most complex systems, including vast cosmic realms and immaterial energies. Artists represented include Lee Bontecou, John Cage, Gustavo Díaz, Hiroyuki Doi, Sonia Gechtoff, Alan Saret, and Hedda Sterne, among others. On view for the first time at the Menil were a group of drawings by the American artist Gregory Masurovsky (1929-2009), whose delicate marks coalesce into transient swarms, vibrations, or cloud formations on the verge of materializing. Consider the artworks in this exhibition as portals, each its own point of entry to personal reflection. Notice how mindful looking can be an introspective, even revelatory encounter, one that parallels the act of drawing."}
{"i":125,"title":"Fragments of Memory","raw":"Fragments of Memory, a selection of works from the Menil’s permanent collection, explored the ways in which the past imbues present experiences. In their drawings, the featured artists take up commonplace embodiments of personal and collective memory, such as scrapbooks, snapshots, notes, relics, and odes, to reimagine how we might access fraught memories and contested histories. Memories are incomplete renditions of the past—composites built from slivers of recollections that reveal the emotions behind moments. The drawings presented in this exhibition were created from the mid-20th century to the recent years and represent different ways that artists reanimate the past and propose new understandings of our present. Works displayed from Luc Tuymans (b. 1958) and Jasper Johns (b. 1930) explore how memory fragments as time passes, while pieces by artists like Sari Dienes and Gael Stack layer objects and imagery from their family and friends, presenting a picture of consciousness."}
{"i":126,"title":"Portraits of Women from the Collection","raw":"The display highlighted a new acquisition by renowned American painter Alice Neel (1900–1984); the 1977 portrait of the New York-based artist and activist Faith Ringgold (1930–2024). Alongside a plaster sculpture of a contemplative and seated figure by Pop artist George Segal was a series of silkscreened paintings by Andy Warhol of Jermayne MacAgy, commissioned in the 1960s by museum founders, John and Dominique de Menil. A close and influential friend of the couple, the late Houston-based curator and art historian was one of the very first subjects of the artist’s now legendary group of square-format portraits."}
{"i":127,"title":"Longing, Grief, and Spirituality: Art Since 1980","raw":"Featuring works created over the past forty years, many of which are owned by the Menil, this display presented artists’ response to the precariousness of life through the expression of grief, spirituality, and longing. Artworks included Kara Walker’s powerful 40-foot-long silhouette work, Freedom Fighters for the Society of Forgotten Knowledge, Northern Domestic Scene, 2005; Andy Warhol’s expansive late painting, The Last Supper, 1985; Mel Chin’s monumental sculpture Our Strange Flower of Democracy, 2005, on special loan from the artist; and a major recent acquisition by Nari Ward, Say Can You See, 2021. The installation highlighted a myriad of artistic approaches to political issues of the past decades. Longing, Grief, and Spirituality: Art Since 1980 was curated by Michelle White, Senior Curator."}
{"i":128,"title":"Foyer Installation: On Kawara","raw":"Moon Landing, 1969, a trio of “Date Paintings” by Japanese-born Conceptual artist On Kawara (1932–2014), was on view at the Menil Collection as a special loan from Glenstone Museum, Potomac, Maryland. Each canvas is inscribed with an important date related to the United States’ Apollo 11 lunar landing that put the first humans on the Moon: mission launch (July 16, 1969), landing of the module (July 20, 1969), and departure from the Moon (July 21, 1969). Kawara’s Today series, begun in 1966 and continued until the year before the artist’s death in 2014, comprises nearly 3,000 works that each feature a date meticulously painted in a white sans-serif font on a monochromatic support. Kawara allowed himself one day to create each work; if a painting remained unfinished by midnight, he destroyed it. As a whole, the series calls attention to the passage of time. The Moon Landing canvases are larger than most in the series, a reflection of the cultural magnitude of the events that took place that month. On Kawara was born in Kariya, Japan. A leading figure in Conceptual art, the artist is best known for his ritualistic meditation on time. After immigrating to the United States in 1964, he was integral to New York’s Conceptual art movement, alongside Hanne Darboven, Sol LeWitt, Joseph Kosuth, and John Baldessari. Kawara’s work has been the subject of solo exhibitions at institutions including Kunsthalle Berlin; Moderna Museet, Stockholm; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York."}
{"i":129,"title":"Abstraction after Modernism: Recent Acquisitions","raw":"Abstract Expressionism, a modernist approach to artmaking that rose to prominence in the United States during the 1940s and 1950s, intrigued John and Dominique de Menil. Their patronage of several of these artists, such as Barnett Newman and Mark Rothko, has famously become a pillar of the museum’s collection today. Abstraction after Modernism: Recent Acquisitions highlighted work made by succeeding generations of artists who forged new paths in their approaches to non-representational art. The exhibition brought together acquisitions made by the Menil over the past fifteen years, including work by Agnes Denes, Suzan Frecon, Sam Gilliam, Ellsworth Kelly, Rick Lowe, and Richard Serra. The de Menils believed that abstract art offered alternative and spiritual ways of approaching reality. In a world cluttered with images, only abstract art, can bring us to the threshold of the divine."}
{"i":130,"title":"Wall Drawing Series: Marc Bauer","raw":"Swiss artist Marc Bauer (b. 1975) was commissioned to create the fifth installment of the ephemeral wall drawing series at the Menil Drawing Institute. This 36-foot-wide charcoal and pastel mural, titled RESILIENCE, Drawing the Line, 2023, combines powerful imagery from art history with contemporary references to create a thought-provoking narrative. Fascinated by how images circulate through society, Bauer uses sources ranging from personal family albums to cable and social news streams which he reconfigures into a prismatic view of history, culture, and politics. He likens this process to a kind of witnessing, a deliberate and deeply personal way of seeing and understanding the world. For this piece, Bauer layered images of manmade disaster and patriarchal violence alongside depictions of resistance, aid, and affection. His images evoke political battles over climate justice, humane migration policy, and the rights of marginalized communities. The work evolved over its yearlong display with the artist returning to alter the drawing."}
{"i":131,"title":"Janet Sobel: All-Over","raw":"Janet Sobel: All-Over focused on the abstract paintings made by Janet Sobel (1893–1968) during the 1940s. Short-lived but meteoric, her career began in 1943, when leading New York dealers, collectors, and other artists took up her work, culminating in her first solo show at New York’s Puma Gallery in 1944, and another solo show at Peggy Guggenheim’s Art of This Century Gallery in 1946. Acclaimed for her skillful use of color and densely layered compositions that spilled to the edges of the support, Sobel pioneered what became known as “all-over” abstraction. American critic Clement Greenberg later called her paintings “the first really all-over effect that I had seen.” Organized with the support of the Sobel family, this exhibition marked the first time her major paintings have been reunited in over sixty years. A selection of works on paper further expanded the exhibition by demonstrating her approach to drawing, with a series of parallel linear strokes that knit foreground and background together into dense, interlocking patterns. Janet Sobel: All-Over was curated by Natalie Dupêcher, Associate Curator of Modern Art, The Menil Collection. The exhibition was organized with the support of the Sobel family."}
{"i":132,"title":"Ruth Asawa Through Line","raw":"Ruth Asawa Through Line was the first exhibition to focus on the artist’s lifelong drawing practice. Widely recognized as a sculptor, Ruth Asawa (1926–2013) drew daily, referring to the act as her “greatest pleasure and the most difficult.” For her, drawing played a foundational role as she experimented with diverse materials and processes to develop a distinct visual language. Through drawing, Asawa explored the world around her and the boundaries of the medium itself, turning everyday encounters into moments of profound beauty, endowing ordinary objects with new aesthetic possibilities. Drawing emerged as a cornerstone of Asawa’s artistic quest in San Francisco, and later became a key component of her role as an arts educator and community leader in the Bay Area. The exhibition presented drawings, collages, watercolors, and sketchbooks alongside stamped prints, paperfolds, and copper-foil works, showing the breadth of Asawa’s innovative practice. Many of the more than one hundred works from public and private collections have not been previously exhibited. Organized thematically, the presentation begun with foundational lessons that the artist absorbed and built upon at Black Mountain College in the late 1940s. Subsequent sections examine the function of repetition and the development of specific motifs and approaches—from the Greek meander to paper folded in structural patterns—and how they recur and change throughout her career. Surveying the artist’s impressive range and expansive approach, Ruth Asawa Through Line offered an unparalleled window into Asawa’s resourceful approach to drawing, with her particular attention to materials, line, surface, and space. Ruth Asawa Through Line was co-curated by Edouard Kopp, John R. Eckel, Jr. Foundation Chief Curator, Menil Drawing Institute and Kim Conaty, Steven and Ann Ames Curator of Drawings and Prints, Whitney Museum of American Art, with Kirsten Marples, Curatorial Associate, Menil Drawing Institute, and Scout Hutc"}
{"i":143,"title":"Waldmüller: Landscapes","raw":"Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna"}
{"i":164,"title":"NG Stories: Making a National Gallery","raw":"Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do."}
{"i":167,"title":"Take One Picture 2024","raw":"As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, primary school children from across the UK have made works inspired by Henri Rousseau’s 'Surprised!' The painting shows a tiger in a jungle storm, crouching low in long grass as rain lashes the foliage and lightning flashes overhead – but who or what is surprised? Children have made a wide range of works in response to the painting. Some were fascinated by the tiger, leading to projects about camouflage and animal eyes. Others focused on the plants, inspiring them to research and recreate rainforest foliage. Many children were concerned about habitat loss affecting tigers, which inspired them to use recycled materials and raise money for conservation charities. This year’s exhibition is part of the Gallery’s Free Festival of Art outside on Trafalgar Square, where you can also take part in creative activities inspired by Rousseau’s Surprised! and the children’s projects."}
{"i":168,"title":"The Last Caravaggio","raw":"May 1610. Caravaggio is in Naples working on the last picture he'd ever paint. Two months later, he died in mysterious circumstances. But it was during his final tumultuous years that Caravaggio made some of his most striking works. His characteristic style includes tightly cropped scenes and dramatic lighting. He used real models with dirty feet and grimy fingernails. Few paintings are better placed to tell the story of Caravaggio’s final years than his last-known work, 'The Martyrdom of Saint Ursula' (1610, Gallerie d’Italia, Naples). The painting is coming to London for the first time in 20 years."}
{"i":172,"title":"IN THE RIJKSMUSEUM PRINT CABINETS","raw":"With more than 750,000 prints and drawings, the Rijksmuseum's collection is one of the largest in the world. Because of the fragility of the material, we rotate the selection in the print cabinets every six month, allowing us to share new stories each time. This presentation focuses on Roman street art, social satire and Japanese fairy tales. There is also a cabinet dedicated to the Van Eeghen Drawing Book, a unique 17th-century drawing book recently gifted to the museum. In the Rome of the 1520s, Polidoro da Caravaggio (c. 1499–1543) was one of the most sought-after artists of his time. He decorated palace facades with monochrome sgraffiti (layers of scratched plaster) depicting mythological and historical scenes, visible to everyone passing on the street. Many of these facade decorations have been lost, but drawings and prints keep them alive. They show how his innovative work spread and inspired artists across Europe. This early 17th-century drawing book is a recent gift to the Rijksmuseum, named after the family who owned it for 300 years. It is unique in having survived fully intact. It contains around thirty drawings, including a series of biblical scenes attributed to Rombout Uylenburgh and his workshop. Uylenburgh emigrated with his family from Friesland to Kraków, where he became a court painter. In 1612 he moved to Danzig (now Gdańsk), a port city with many Dutch inhabitants. There the book likely came into the possession of the Amsterdam merchant Reyer Claesz., whose name appears on the binding. After his death, Uylenburgh fell into obscurity. No refined beauty here, but a glimpse of raw reality. The prints of Giuseppe Mitelli (c. 1634–1718) are considered forerunners of the cartoon. With humour and sharp satire, he depicts wealthy young men, street vendors and beggars in a world of stark inequality. Success, love, honour: almost everything is for sale. His portrayals of the fragility of human existence still hit home. Shared experiences remain recognisab"}
{"i":173,"title":"PARTIALLY CLOSED","raw":"Every six months, the curators present new stories from the Rijksmuseum’s Asian art collection. Under the watchful eyes of the Japanese temple guardians, renowned Taiwanese artist Tong Yang-Tze presents two works. There is also a focus on the Taiwanese artist and fashion designer Sophie Hong, the collection of Asian ivory carvings and the Japanese concept of 'kazari' - the art of decoration. Tong Yang-Tze (b. 1942) is one of Taiwan’s most influential contemporary artists. Her work embodies an emotional connection with Taiwan — the island where she grew up, and which has shaped both her life and her art. Through the flowing language of calligraphy, she expresses this deep bond. Two of her works are currently on view in the Asian Pavilion, including Home is where the Heart is (2023). Calligraphy is an ancient art form that combines the meaning of characters with the artistic expressiveness of brushstrokes. Tong Yang-Tze’s calligraphy revolves around rhythm, emotion, and movement. The rhythm of the characters unfolds like a melody, created by the speed and energy of her brushwork. Sophie Hong is one of the most compelling figures in the Taiwanese contemporary art and fashion scenes. Seamlessly, she merges traditional East Asian aesthetics with contemporary design. Hong uses ‘wearable art’ to explore cultural heritage and identity. With her designs, she weaves narratives about history and traditional craftmanship. She draws inspiration from Chinese Xiangyun silk, a textile that has been created and perfected for hundreds of years. The artist transformed it into her signature ‘Hong silk’, revitalizing tradition through a contemporary artistic language. The two works on display evoke the patterns of bark and vines."}
{"i":175,"title":"20th-century Galleries","raw":"Every six months we present new spotlight displays in the 20th-century galleries of the Rijksmuseum. This edition highlights the drawings of Madelon Vriesendorp, Charley Toorop’s artistic circle, and the influence of photography on 20th-century advertising."}
{"i":189,"title":"FESTIVAL FRENZY","raw":"Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry."}
{"i":191,"title":"POINT OF VIEW","raw":"Did all 17th-century children wear dresses? Why did women have to fight so hard to wear trousers? And what does the size of your desk say about your gender? Point of View explores how ideas around gender have been visualised through the ages, and shows they are constantly changing."}
{"i":192,"title":"STOP MOTION","raw":"De fotocamera bleek iets te kunnen wat het menselijk oog niet kon: een snelle beweging volgen en analyseren. Wat bleek: de paardengalop was altijd verkeerd weergegeven door kunstenaars."}
{"i":193,"title":"EXPRESS YOURSELF","raw":"Discover youth culture as seen through the lenses of Gerard Wessel and André Bogaerts. This unique glimpse into teenage lifestyles juxtaposes the wild expressiveness of the nightlife scene captured in Wessel’s photos with Bogaerts’ intimate portraits of teens on the cusp of adulthood – all shot in the period from 1981 to 2012."}
{"i":194,"title":"RICHARD LONG","raw":"Every year, the Rijksmuseum holds an outdoor exhibition, this year featuring Richard Long. Richard Long is famous for his subtle interventions in the landscape at some of the most remote locations around the world. Entrance is free to all in the Rijksmuseum gardens."}
{"i":196,"title":"XXL PAPER","raw":"How do you exhibit a 23-metre long painted landscape? A 16-metre-long print of a funeral procession? Or a life-size design for a 12-metre high church window? These are some of the largest works on paper in our collection. With their size and fragility, they are rarely if ever on display. But now they are!"}
{"i":197,"title":"MODERN JAPANESE LACQUER","raw":"The shimmering golden branches of a willow tree, a vigilant praying mantis standing atop an aubergine, sunlight falling on a flower: discover the spectacular detail and beauty of Japanese lacquer this summer."}
{"i":198,"title":"REVOLUSI!","raw":"Diplomats, freedom fighters, victims, liberators. Everyone has a different view. REVOLUSI! is about the Indonesian struggle for independence (1945-‘49), seen through the eyes of people who experienced it. More than 20 personal stories tell us how the ideal of a free Indonesia is fervently pursued; how it is fought over, how it is negotiated, how it is propagated and how the revolution determines human lives."}
{"i":199,"title":"VINCENT MENTZEL","raw":"For years, Vincent Mentzel (1945) has been one of the most iconic photographers in the Netherlands. He literally gave shape to the news. During his career photojournalism has changed: from a less important medium to a powerful and independent one with artistic possibilities. Come and see this development through Mentzel's photos."}
{"i":201,"title":"ELLSWORTH KELLY","raw":"This summer it will be impossible to miss the immense sculptures in the outdoor exhibition Ellsworth Kelly in the Rijksmuseum Gardens. Kelly was one of the most important American artists of the second half of the 20th century. Nine of his sculptures will be displayed in our gardens, and all of them are appearing in the Netherlands for the first time."}
{"i":202,"title":"SLAVERY","raw":"This exhibition about slavery takes the form of personal and real-life stories rather than abstract concepts. There are stories from Brazil, Suriname, and the Caribbean, and from South Africa and Asia."}
{"i":204,"title":"THE STRENGTH OF DUTCH MUSEUM COLLECTIONS","raw":"With the grateful support of the Rembrandt Association and the Turing Foundation, forty-five museums in the Netherlands are this year staging special presentations of artworks from their permanent collection that merit extra attention. As one of the participating museums, the Rijksmuseum has chosen to showcase two radiant portraits by Piero di Cosimo."}
{"i":205,"title":"THE BEST ITALIAN DRAWINGS","raw":"Works by great Italian masters such as Raphael, Michelangelo, Carracci, Barocci, Canaletto, Tiepolo and Piranesi are now being exhibited at the Rijksmuseum in a display of drawings from the museum’s Print Room collection."}
{"i":206,"title":"JAMES McNEILL WHISTLER","raw":"Experience the captivating world of rule-breaking American artist James McNeill Whistler A truly global figure, Whistler re-wrote the rules of what it meant to be an artist. He pioneered new and innovative techniques, creating astonishingly beautiful, ethereal visions of modern life that would earn him a place as one of the most influential artists of the 19th and 20th centuries. This retrospective – the first major European exhibition of Whistler’s work in 30 years – brings together the artist’s world-famous paintings alongside rarely, or never seen, works. It includes exquisite portraits, drawings, prints, and designs, from as early as his teens in St. Petersburg to the enigmatic late self-portraits. The exhibition presents both a boldly experimental artist and cosmopolitan celebrity, disrupting the conventions of Victorian society in pursuit of truth, beauty, and progress."}
{"i":207,"title":"The 90s: Art and Fashion","raw":"Explore a decade characterised by its bold creativity and rebellious spirit Curated by fashion industry game changer Edward Enninful OBE, whose lived experience of the decade informs the exhibition The 90s: Art and Fashion examines a defining period in which a groundswell of creativity changed the face of British culture. As Britain began to emerge from recession, a new dawn of optimism, freedom, and rebellion was ushered in, epitomised by a new generation of diverse creative talent. Seen through Edward Enninful’s eyes, this sense of opportunity resulted in art, design, fashion and photography fusing into one potent cultural force, signalling an audacious renewal of British spirit. The exhibition explores how long-held hierarchies were dismantled, with high art and pop culture feeding into one another, and reflects both the energy and the challenges of the decade, looking at the enduring influence of key figures who emerged during this time. The 90s: Art and Fashion brings together photography, fashion, art and design, including iconic images by photographers including Juergen Teller, David Sims and Corinne Day. These are shown alongside the work of artists like Steve McQueen, Damien Hirst, Sarah Lucas, and Yinka Shonibare, as well as fashion film and music culture, including collections by decade defining designers Vivienne Westwood, Alexander McQueen, and John Galliano."}
{"i":208,"title":"Vanessa Bell & Duncan Grant: Inside Bloomsbury","raw":"Explore the vivid world of the Bloomsbury Group’s famous artistic duo This major exhibition features the work of two of the most celebrated British artists of the twentieth century. Vanessa Bell & Duncan Grant: Inside Bloomsbury delves into the extraordinary relationship between the artists, while tracing their remarkable creative partnership that spanned more than 50 years. The exhibition explores Bell and Grant’s legacy as core members of the famed Bloomsbury Group. The group’s commitment to living lives centred around freedom and radical experimentation had a significant influence on the course of art, literature, and societal thought in Britain. The exhibition features over 300 works, including vivid portraits, still lives, landscape paintings, decorative works on furniture, ceramics, textiles, and much more. A once-in-a-lifetime restaging of the artists' studio, relocated for the exhibition from their Sussex home, Charleston, is an unmissable highlight. As well as emphasising Bell and Grant’s shared creative endeavours, visitors will see how the artists also forged their own paths. This joyful exhibition celebrates their extraordinary artistic partnership, and the enduring impact these two remarkable artists had on British Art."}
{"i":209,"title":"Commission 2026: Zineb Sedira: When Words Fall Silent, Cinema Speaks","raw":"Explore Zineb Sedira's monumental and intimate installation, bridging the political and the poetic British-French-Algerian artist Zineb Sedira (b.1963) will undertake the next Tate Britain Commission, creating a major new site-specific work for the neo-classical Duveen Galleries at the heart of Tate Britain. On view until 17 January 2027, this will be Sedira’s largest commission in the UK to date and the latest in a series inviting leading contemporary artists to respond to this unique architectural context. Over the past three decades, Zineb Sedira has developed a powerful and multifaceted artistic practice spanning photography, performance, video, and installation. Sedira's work draws on personal encounters within the Algerian diaspora of Africa. Taking inspiration from family archives and the history of cinema, she bridges the political and the poetic, thoughtfully exploring themes of memory, migration and trauma. Her installations invite audiences to consider the emotional and geographical dimensions of displacement, while critically examining dominant historical narratives. By keeping histories alive, her storytelling becomes both an act of resistance and a gesture of connection, affirming her place as a significant and influential voice in today’s cultural landscape. Zineb Sedira said: “Taking on the Tate Britain Commission feels both monumental and intimate. It’s about bringing the weight of history into dialogue with the living pulse of the Pan-African experience. It gives me the opportunity to imagine new stories, new energies, and new meanings.”"}
{"i":210,"title":"Art Now: Mohammed Z Rahman","raw":"A new body of paintings exploring notions of home and love, displayed alongside Tate works, The Lovers and The Spaghetti House Mohammed Z Rahman’s Art Now display, Never the Same, is staged in two theatrical ‘acts’, conjuring painterly worlds inspired by love letters, songs, poems, recipes, dreams and memories, with a Tate collection work providing an entry point into each. Act One addresses home, play and joy, starting with The Spaghetti House 2024, a painting based on a story the artist created in collaboration with their six-year-old niece. The Lovers 2024 will bring visitors into Act Two. The painting depicts six people in a close embrace, interpreted either as laying down or as standing and dancing. Inspired by the eponymous tarot card, it explores the transformative powers of love and connection. Rahman builds on this work to explore love in its many forms, from sorrow to celebration, in paintings made for the exhibition. In one work, a figure weeps on a bed surrounded by the belongings of ex-lovers, while elsewhere, a humble crate is transformed into a box of chocolates, gifted as an act of love."}
{"i":211,"title":"Sonia Boyce","raw":"Experience the powerful and playful work of a ground-breaking British artist Tate’s first survey of Sonia Boyce’s forty-year career unfolds across large-scale installations, photography, collage, drawing, film and sculpture, celebrating a practice shaped by fierce experimentation and a refusal to conform. This multi-sensory show traces Boyce’s collaborative and improvisational techniques, inviting visitors on a playful journey into profound questions of collective memory, authorship, and the boundaries between private and public experiences. Celebrated works are reimagined for the exhibition and shown in dialogue with installations never shown before in the UK. Highlights include the Devotional series - Boyce’s living, ever-growing archive created in conversation with the public, and the most extensive presentation to date of her early pastel drawings and collages. Emerging in the 1980s within the British Black Arts Movement, Boyce went on to pioneer photographic, performance and participatory practice. An artist, academic and educator, Boyce gained global recognition when she represented Great Britain at the 2022 Venice Biennale and was awarded the prestigious Golden Lion."}
{"i":212,"title":"Thomas Gainsborough","raw":"Step into the glamorous world of Britain’s best loved society portraitist Marking the 300th anniversary of his birth, this landmark exhibition celebrates Thomas Gainsborough’s considerable influence on British art and examines his legacy today. The first major survey exhibition of his work in over 20 years, it brings together 120 paintings and drawings in a once-in-a-generation tribute to this much-loved, quintessentially Georgian artist. Reflecting the full range and variety of Gainsborough’s practice, this exhibition explores the contrast between the glamour and polish of the society portraits that made his name, and the creative chaos in which he worked behind the scenes. It also examines the importance of his wife and daughters to his life and work. The spirit of his studio space, where he experimented with the innovative techniques that elevated him above his peers, will be brought to life along with his passion for music and theatre that is so palpable throughout his work."}
{"i":213,"title":"David Hockney","raw":"2027 would have marked the 90th birthday of one of Britain’s most celebrated artists, David Hockney. Throughout 2025 and into 2026, Tate Britain was working on a major project with the artist to mark this milestone anniversary. Following David Hockney’s death in June 2026, Tate Britain is honoured to present the culmination of that project: an exhibition charting seven decades of the artist’s work, focusing on the joys and complexities of love and friendship. Visitors will discover the crucial role that family, friends, and lovers played in Hockney’s visual storytelling, and how the artist’s engagement with intimacy, vulnerability and human connection informed the evolution of his art. Featuring over 200 works, the exhibition spans the full breadth of Hockney’s extraordinary career. It ranges from trailblazing 1960s explorations of queer love and desire to tender depictions of his parents, and recent works exploring private moments in Hockney’s home and studio. The exhibition will also delve into Hockney’s close relationships with fellow artists as they play out through creative dialogues."}
{"i":214,"title":"The Tudors","raw":"Tate’s first presentation of Tudor works in 30 years, this exhibition brings an entirely fresh perspective on the development of art in this profoundly transformative period. Made up of around 150 works, the exhibition presents exceptional oil paintings, miniatures, works on paper, sculptures, decorative art, and more. Highlights include key works by leading artists such as Hans Holbein, Nicholas Hilliard, and Isaac Oliver, and rooms dedicated to iconic portraits of Henry VIII and Elizabeth I. Bringing Tudor art to a new generation, this exhibition is underpinned by brand new scientific and technical research, with revelations casting a whole new light on our understanding of art from this time. The Tudor period is often viewed as the age that witnessed the birth of modern Britain, and in turn, that of British painting. The show explores the lives of artists working at the time, examining their journeys from unknown, anonymous figures to celebrated individuals. It will consider questions of art patronage – what was painted and for whom - and will probe how art, and portraiture in particular, reflected both individual as well as national ambitions and concerns."}
{"i":215,"title":"FRIDA: THE MAKING OF AN ICON","raw":"Step into the life and legacy of Frida Kahlo: revolutionary artist and global icon Discover the extraordinary story of how Frida Kahlo became one of the most influential artists of all time, a cultural phenomenon, and an internationally recognised commercial icon. Frida: The Making of an Icon will showcase over 30 of Kahlo’s most iconic works that introduce her ‘many selves’ – the dedicated wife, the intellectual, the modern artist, and the political activist. Alongside treasured garments, jewellery, photographs and memorabilia, there are over 200 works by her contemporaries and the artists she inspired from later generations, celebrating her lasting impact on those who continue to reimagine and reclaim her remarkable story. The show will culminate by exploring ‘Fridamania’. Kahlo’s transformation into a global brand will feature more than 200 commercial objects that encompass her art, image, style and persona."}
{"i":216,"title":"Julio Le Parc: Light. Colour. Action.","raw":"Discover seven decades of joyful works by Argentinian artist Julio Le Parc, which turns visitors into active participants Playful and mesmerising, this immersive exhibition celebrates the visionary work of Julio Le Parc. Featuring his striking interactive installations, shimmering light sculptures, and large-scale geometric paintings, the show spans an extraordinary career from the late 1950s to the 2020s. He is best known for his pioneering kinetic sculptures, which use light, movement and mirrored surfaces to surprise and draw in the viewer. Le Parc wanted to make viewers feel active, with their acts of looking and experiencing bringing each artwork to life; to make more democratic art that everyone can easily enjoy. The show also explores the depth and diversity of Le Parc’s talent, with trailblazing installation art plus canvases and works on paper experimenting with colour combinations and dynamic visual effects."}
{"i":217,"title":"Ana Mendieta","raw":"Experience the powerful work of Ana Mendieta, whose legacy changed the course of contemporary art This major exhibition dedicated to Ana Mendieta presents many of her iconic works alongside newly remastered films, early paintings, and late sculptural pieces, many of which have never been seen in the UK before. The show will continue outside the gallery walls, embracing Mendieta’s deep relationship with the natural world. Mendieta is best known for her Silueta Series, exploring the presence and absence of the human body, using a number of natural materials including fire, water and flowers. These ephemeral works were recorded as photographs and films. Active in the 1970s and early 80s, the Cuban-born American artist posed profound questions throughout her work around displacement and identity, which remain highly relevant today."}
{"i":218,"title":"Light and Magic: The Birth of Art Photography","raw":"Light and Magic is the first major exhibition to explore pictorialism as a global movement. Discover how artists became pioneers of the darkroom, transforming our understanding of photography and image making. Bringing together over 200 rare prints by over 80 artists from Seoul to Sydney, New York to Cape Town and Brazil to Singapore, this truly international exhibition takes a fresh and inclusive look at the history of photography. Featuring never-before seen works from around the world alongside pieces from Tate’s Collection, Light and Magic highlights the vast and varied artistic possibilities of photography as a medium. All Tate Modern entrances are step-free. You can enter via the Turbine Hall and into the Natalie Bell Building on Holland Street, or into the Blavatnik Building on Sumner street. There are lifts to every floor of the Blavatnik and Natalie Bell buildings. Alternatively you can take the stairs."}
{"i":219,"title":"Monet: Painting Time","raw":"Enjoy the exquisite works of one of history’s best-loved artists Tate Modern’s first ever exhibition focusing exclusively on Claude Monet brings together breathtaking paintings from lenders across the globe, including rarely seen works from private collections. Based mainly in France, Monet lived through an era which saw the rise of railways, industrialisation, the modern city, and the adoption of standardised timekeeping. Drawing on new research, the show explores how Monet responded to these seismic changes through his work. The exhibition centres on Monet’s profound and evolving relationship with time. We see how he echoed the rapid pace of modern life by capturing the fleeting, instantaneous ‘impressionist’ moment, through works such as Arrival of the Normandy Train, Gare Saint-Lazare (1877). We are also shown, in celebrated series such as Poplars on the Epte (1891–1897), Monet’s attempts, through variations of the same subject, to capture a specific, transient instant in time."}
{"i":220,"title":"Ink","raw":"Ink is Tate’s first ever exhibition dedicated to the enduring and profoundly philosophical practice of ink painting. Serving as an introduction to this beautiful, intricate artform, the show highlights key ideas within the ink tradition, including its sense of historical continuity and relationship to the natural world. Organised around three themes ‘Life’, ‘the Garden’, and ‘Breath’, the exhibition features around 80 works. While ink painting is widely practiced across East Asia and its diasporas, the show focuses on key artists in mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan who helped reinvent it for the twentieth century. Each found new ways to honour the tradition while pushing it forward - boldly experimenting, yet staying true to its core principles. By tracing the connections between these artists, Ink reveals a vibrant regional network and challenges familiar Western narratives of modern art, including ideas of originality, expressionism and the avant-garde. Ink is presented in the Eyal Ofer Galleries. Research supported by Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational in partnership with Hyundai Motor. Research supported by Hyundai Tate Research Centre: Transnational"}
{"i":221,"title":"Baya","raw":"Witness the bold and beautiful works of leading Algerian artist Tate Modern presents the UK’s first ever solo exhibition of the work of Algerian artist Baya (Mahieddine). Featuring more than 100 of her vivid gouache watercolours, alongside unique ceramic sculptures, this show traces Baya’s groundbreaking impact across cultural landscapes in North Africa and Europe during the 20th century. Forging an artistic and cultural identity in newly independent Algeria, Baya’s geometric patterns and bold colours were rooted in the creative and natural surroundings of her homeland, as well as its storytelling and musical traditions. Throughout her life, she defied attempts to categorise her work in terms like ‘surrealist’ or ‘naive’, instead claiming her distinctly modernist approach as simply ‘Baya-ism’. Baya’s work has been influential on generations of international artists and thinkers, including figures such as Pablo Picasso and André Breton. This exhibition shines a spotlight on her practice, showcasing her extraordinary work on its own terms. It builds on new research to explore the complexity and experimentation at the heart of this hugely significant artist’s career."}
{"i":222,"title":"Nalini Malani","raw":"Witness the powerful work of leading contemporary artist Nalini Malani Surveying the incredible six-decade career of contemporary artist Nalini Malani, this exhibition is characterised by its ability to evoke both beauty and discomfort. As a global storyteller based in Mumbai, Malani’s work is deeply influenced by her own lived experience as a child refugee of India’s Partition. Her practice centres on rewriting Western and Eastern history, myths and literature in a way that prompts viewers to question the world around them. With this exhibition, Malani addresses the complexity of our times and reveals the hopeful conviction that guides her practice: ‘The future is female, there is no other way’. Known in India since the late sixties for her pioneering multidisciplinary approach, Malani gained international recognition with signature monumental multi-media works and installations such as Mother India: Transactions in the Construction of Pain, and In Search of Vanished Blood. These works will be presented in the show alongside her recent iPad animation series Can You Hear Me?"}
{"i":223,"title":"Lynda Benglis","raw":"Immerse yourself in the electrifying, rule-shattering world of Lynda Benglis Lynda Benglis is renowned for challenging conventions and reinventing materials. This approach is already evident in her celebrated ‘pours’, first made in the late 1960s, when she mixed latex and Day-Glo pigments and poured them directly onto the floor to dramatic effect. Over the following decades, Benglis has continued to push the boundaries of form and material across video, photography, sculpture, and installation, working with substances as varied as polyurethane foam, bronze, ceramic, paper and glitter, to create an oeuvre as surprising as it is radical. Tate Modern will present more than 50 works spanning the late 1960s to the present, showcasing the inventive aesthetic that has cemented the American artist's role as one of the most influential artists of our time. The exhibition is organised by the Kunstmuseum Basel, in collaboration with Tate Modern and the Louisiana Museum of Modern Art."}
{"i":224,"title":"Edvard Munch","raw":"Edvard Munch once described his famous painting series The Frieze of Life as ‘impressions from the life of the soul’. Through powerful images, Munch explored feelings we all recognise - love, loss, and loneliness in a changing world. This compelling new exhibition, organised in collaboration with the MUNCH museum, looks at Munch’s ‘soul paintings’ through the lens of cinema and visual storytelling. With unique input from contemporary filmmakers and academics, the exhibition will bring unprecedented insight into his radical tales of identity and desire. The exhibition includes key works from The Frieze of Life, alongside large-scale paintings, prints, photographs, Munch’s experimental film and rare archival material. By exploring universal themes of passion, pain, and inner turmoil, the show reveals why Munch’s work still feels so relevant in an era shaped by online sharing, self-expression and emotional honesty. Exhibition organised by Tate Modern in collaboration with MUNCH."}
{"i":225,"title":"Gathering Ground","raw":"Explore the power of art to inspire change in today’s ecological crisis Bringing together art from across Tate’s Collection, this exhibition highlights the connection between environmental and social justice, inviting us to reimagine our relationships with the natural world and each other. Artists Outi Pieski, Abbas Akhavan, Bruce Conner, Zheng Bo, Joydeb Roaja, Abel Rodriguez, Munem Wasif, Minerva Cuevas and Carolina Caycedo feature, as well as a new commission by Abbas Zahedi. Through their work, these artists honor Indigenous knowledge, nurture queer multispecies relations and document issues such as displacement and destruction of land and waterways. Set in a former oil and coal power station, Gathering Ground offers a shared space to reflect on our role in creating a more equal world. At a critical moment in our history, this powerful exhibition asks: how can we be good Ancestors for future generations?"}
{"i":226,"title":"Hyundai Commission: Tarek Atoui","raw":"Tarek Atoui to create exciting new work for Tate Modern’s iconic Turbine Hall Tarek Atoui is an artist and composer celebrated for his innovative performances and installations that explore and challenge perceptions of sound. Drawing on his extensive research into music history, instrumentation and production, Atoui creates multisensory environments that blend music, technology, sculpture and performance. Central to his practice is the invention of intricately engineered instruments, made in collaboration with other artists, composers and makers, which double as sculptural objects. Tarek Atoui’s site-specific work for Tate Modern’s Turbine Hall will be the 11th in the series of commissions supported by Hyundai Motor. Over the past decade, the annual Hyundai Commission has welcomed over 19 million visitors. Each year an artist is invited to create a new work in the vast industrial space of the Turbine Hall, reshaping public perceptions of contemporary art. Hyundai Commission is in partnership with Hyundai Motor. Supported by the Tarek Atoui Supporters Circle and Tate Americas Foundation."}
{"i":227,"title":"Hyundai Commission 2027","raw":"Experience the world-renowned Hyundai Commission in the iconic Turbine Hall Since Tate Modern opened in 2000, the Turbine Hall has hosted some of the most memorable and ambitious works of our time. Each year, an invited artist creates a new site-specific work for the vast industrial space of the Turbine Hall, transforming how audiences encounter contemporary art. Over the past decade, the annual Hyundai Commission has welcomed over 19 million visitors. Each year an artist is invited to create a new work in the vast industrial space of the Turbine Hall, reshaping public perceptions of contemporary art. The Hyundai Commission 2027 will be the 12th in the series. The commissioned artist will be announced in 2027. The Hyundai Commission is made possible through the partnership between Tate and Hyundai Motor. Founded in 2014 as the longest initial commitment from a corporate partner in Tate’s history, the partnership has since been extended until 2036, supporting artists to realise some of the most ambitious installations of the past decade."}
{"i":228,"title":"At Palazzo Pitti the 20th century showcased in 40 dreamlike dresses: the new arrangement at the museum of Costume and Fashion","raw":"A century of fashion, from the liveliness of the Charleston to the daz-zling '80s of Enrico Coveri, passing through the breathtaking creations of Elsa Schiaparelli, Yves Saint Laurent, Pierre Cardin and Roberto Capucci. The new arrangement by the Museum of Costume and Fash-ion at Palazzo Pitti narrates this story through 40 dresses, emblematic of the world's finest tailoring (many of which have never been show-cased), engaging elegantly with works by 20th-century painting mas-ters such as Galileo Chini, Felice Casorati, and Alberto Burri. Exactly one year after the Gallery's complete renovation and subse-quent total reopening, the twentieth-century selection is displayed in rotation to present the public with a new enchanting chapter in cos-tume history. Boasting a collection of 15,000 historical garments and accessories from the eighteenth century to the present day, the Muse-um of Costume and Fashion has decided to refresh its exhibits each year. This will enable extraordinary, previously unseen, and carefully restored attire to be brought out from storage in rotation for the public to enjoy. The rooms dedicated to seventeenth and eighteenth-century fashion and Medici clothes remain unchanged. The first of the new spaces, dedicated to the ‘Charleston fashion’ be-tween avant-garde and exoticism, opens the new selection: Galileo Chini's remarkable Triptych turns the room into a dramatic scene remi-niscent of Puccini, with the dress worn by the painter's wife at the premiere of Turandot at Milan's Teatro La Scala on 25 April 1926. Additional exquisite dresses crafted from fine silks and adorned with decorative motifs inspired by China, Japan, and India illustrate how Orientalism was closely linked with the flappers' desire for emancipa-tion and experimentation—young women of the era who defied con-vention."}
{"i":229,"title":"At the Pitti Palace, the “very best” of the king’s furniture","raw":"The very best of three centuries (from the 17th to the 19th) of royal furnishings, recounted through the evolving interior decoration styles of three dynasties – the Medici, Lorraine, and Savoy –, has been concentrated in a selection exhibiting 16 genuine furniture masterpieces that also outline the Palace’s cultural history. On the first floor of the former sovereign residence of the Pitti Palace, the Palatine Gallery’s Niche Room now offers a complete anthology of royal furniture. Decorative armchairs, vases from the Manufacture de Sèvres and others imported from China, Giovanni Socci’s legendary mechanical writing desk, a kneeling stool made by Leonardo van der Vinne and adorned with precious stones, and a unique stipo providing a perfect scale reproduction of the Pitti Palace: all these items, through their shapes and decorations, speak to the visitor about how the sovereigns’ tastes and “domestic” aesthetics changed over time. The visitor is thoroughly initiated in the Palace’s heritage of furniture and the decorative arts – that is, in the discovery of an inheritance that, although among the most important of its kind in Europe, is still virtually unknown. Today, while very little remains of the Renaissance decor at Pitti, thousands of items bear witness to the Baroque period, to 17th century Neo-Classicism, and to Savoy eclecticism. Of the objects on display in the Niche Room, visitors can admire the virtuoso 17th-century works of intarsia and “commesso” – that is, the inlay of gemstones from Botteghe Granducali degli Uffizi, the grand ducal workshops. With the rise of the Lorraines, the court’s taste – also in furnishings – adapted to the new European styles, abandoning the decorative flamboyance of Baroque for the lightness of oriental lacquer and sinuously-shaped furniture. With Ferdinand III, certain environments in the Pitti Palace were transformed in accordance with the dictates of the Neo-Classical style; under French rule, Elisa Baciocchi, Napoleon’s"}
{"i":230,"title":"Sarmi’s Genius. A new exhibition at the Museum of Costume and Fashion","raw":"Audrey Hepburn, Marilyn Monroe, Marlene Dietrich, Barbra Streisand, the Duchess of Windsor. During the golden years of Fifth Avenue, the 20th century’s most famous women placed their look in the hands of Ferdinando Sarmi, a fashion designer who succeeded in giving American high society a touch of Italian flair. From 18 June to 31 December 2026, the Museum of Costume and Fashion at Palazzo Pitti will celebrate the designer with the exhibition Ferdinando Sarmi New York – Un viaggio nella moda da Firenze alla Fifth Avenue (“Ferdinando Sarmi New York – A journey in fashion from Florence to Fifth Avenue”), staged in the ballroom and adjacent rooms. The exhibition, the first of its kind, displays a selection of the designer’s iconic gowns, placed alongside items from the Fondo Sarmi holding at the Museum of Costume and Fashion as well as period accessories that recreate the cultural and worldly climate of New York of the 1950s and 1960s. Exhibition dedicated to Ferdinando Sarmi at Museum of Costume and Fashion"}
{"i":231,"title":"Wax upon a time. The Medici and the arts of ceroplastics","raw":"The story of the masterpieces of ancient wax sculpture is the guiding thread of the new Uffizi exhibition, ‘Cera una volta. I Medici e le arti della ceroplastica’. The exhibition is being hosted from 18 December 2025 to 12 April 2026 in the new spaces built in recent months and now specially set up on the Gallery’s ground floor. Curated by Valentina Conticelli, Andrea Daninos and Simone Verde, this is the very first exhibition dedicated to the Florentine collections of wax sculpture from the 16th and 17th centuries. As the title says, it aims to shed light on an incredible lost creative field: that of the production of wax images, always living since ancient times in the popular sensibility and destined to experience a particular renewal of interest among the ranks of fine arts in Medici Florence from the 15th to the late 17th centuries. Soft and neutral, if fashioned by the skilled hands of Renaissance sculptors, it could bring substance to faces and bodies in the form of everlasting images. With the Baroque culture, obsessed as it was with the passage of time, this organic material born from bees, which due to its malleable nature imitates the characteristics of the skin like no other, comes into its own in giving shape to the living body and its dissolution. Production of it was widespread but largely lost. Not only due to the substantial perishability of the material, but above all for the resistance of critics in welcoming its creations among the so-called ‘major arts’: a cultural phenomenon which greatly favoured their loss. The aim of ‘Cera una volta’ is therefore to make wax sculpture better known – still today confined to a sort of unconscious realm of art history – at the moment of its greatest splendour, when, having reached very high forms of virtuosity, it was avidly sought for noble collections; and to highlight how, even in this field, the Medici were avant-garde collectors, capable of fully understanding the value of these types of object and protect"}
{"i":232,"title":"Florence and Europe. Arts of the Eighteenth Century at the Uffizi","raw":"Masterpieces by Goya, Tiepolo, Canaletto, Le Brun, Liotard, Mengs and many other masters; spectacular views of iconic places of the Grand Tour in Italy; the monumental Mystic Marriage of St. Catherine by French painter Pierre Subleyras, restored live on display before the public's eyes; the sensual curiosities of the Cabinet of Erotic Antiquities reconstructed according to the fashion of the Age of Enlightenment. The Uffizi Galleries bring the 18th century back to life with an impressive exhibition titled \"Florence and Europe. Arts of the Eighteenth Century at the Uffizi”, curated by the director Simone Verde and the head of Eighteenth-Century Painting Alessandra Griffo, and set up in the airy frescoed rooms on the ground floor of the museum. A careful selection of around 150 works, including paintings, sculptures, furniture, porcelain, prints, and a large tapestry, many exhibited for the first time in the Gallery, and others that have not been accessible for more than ten years due to the museum's extension works. The aim of the exhibition is to recount, through art, an era of crucial changes for Western thought, aesthetics, and taste, and also for the Uffizi itself, which, in the 18th century, was completely transformed from a dynastic treasure chest of royal collections into a modern museum, the first in the world. It was precisely at this time, in fact, that the pact established by the last Medici descendant, Anna Maria Luisa, certifying the end of the dynasty in 1737, bound the boundless store of works to Florence \"for the ornament of the State\"; and it was Pietro Leopoldo, Grand Duke of Tuscany, who in 1769 allowed citizens, on the feast day of Florence's patron saint, St. John (24 June), to visit the museum freely. Structural changes intertwined with the great wave of political, cultural, and aesthetic transformations throughout Europe, which the Grand Dukes in Florence managed to intercept with the Uffizi Galleries, transforming the city and the museum into"}
{"i":233,"title":"1925-1955 Fashion in the Spotlight. The origins of Made in Italy","raw":"From 18 June to 2 November 2025, the Museum of Fashion and Costume of Pitti Palace will host in four rooms “Fashion in the Spotlight 1925–1955. The origins of Made in Italy”, an exhibition promoted by the Ministry of Culture, organized and created by Archivio Luce Cinecittà in collaboration with the Uffizi Galleries and curated by Fabiana Giacomotti. The exhibition aims to reconstruct thirty fundamental years in the history of Italian fashion, before its definitive international affirmation. Over fifty items of clothing, accessories and audiovisual and photographic contributions articulate the exhibition path, designed to tell how Italian fashion was defined – between textile innovation, aesthetic research, excellent craftsmanship and commercial strategies – well before the famous fashion show in the Sala Bianca of Pitti Palace in 1952. A narrative that develops over a time span between 1925 and 1955, intertwining little-known episodes with legendary names, so as to provide a new look at the roots of Made in Italy. At the heart of the exhibition is the extraordinary heritage of the Luce Archives, with an important core of photographs and films, many of which are unpublished. The garments and accessories on display come partly from prestigious museums (such as the Boncompagni Ludovisi Museums, Palazzo Madama) and partly from corporate or private archives, such as the Massimo Cantini Parrini Collection, present with a considerable number of pieces. \"With this exhibition project, hosted in one of the cities that best tell the world about the exceptionality and greatness of Italian creativity and art, we intend to highlight one of its greatest expressions, fashion. The exhibition is intended as an original historical snapshot of the evolution and affirmation of a sector that has always been synonymous with vision and whose unique creations, the fruit of expert hands, have made and continue to make the flagship of Made in Italy. A national heritage whose importance is we"}