=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, and mythology. Musical Bodies is the first major exhibition to explore the relationship between musical instruments and the body by bringing together some 130 instruments, paintings, sculptures, drawings, and more to illuminate how we express who we are, what we value, and what we believe. With works from The Met collection and institutions and collectors around the world, the exhibition explores 4,000 years of art and music history, from ancient Egyptian rattles and musical masterpieces by Titian and Degas to instrument-inspired apparel and one of Prince’s most notable guitars. Musical Bodies will resonate with visitors of all ages, whether you are a musician, a devoted listener, or simply curious about human expression. The exhibition is made possible by Barbara Tober, the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary C. and James W. Fosburgh Publications Fund.
  →  Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection.

RAW: The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other collecting areas. Pairings between fashions and artworks will present a spectrum of connections and experiences: from the formal to the conceptual, the aesthetic to the political, the individual to the universal, the illustrative to the symbolic, and the playful to the profound. These pairings are organized into a series of thematic body types that reflect their pervasiveness and endurance through time and cultures. Costume Art is the inaugural exhibition in the new, nearly 12,000-square-foot galleries adjacent to the Great Hall. This space will display The Costume Institute’s annual spring show and, at times, shows from the Museum’s other curatorial departments, including those that explore the intersection of fashion and art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here
  →  Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries.

RAW: In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the great sculptors of the 20th century in dialogue with the ancient civilization that strongly influenced his art and his practice. Throughout his career, Giacometti showed a particular fascination for the art of ancient Egypt. The Egyptian statues he saw in Italy as a young artist made a lasting impression on his visual repertoire, and after he moved to Paris, he regularly visited the Egyptian galleries of the Louvre. His formal dialogue with Egypt can be seen in sketches of walking figures in profile, which were later realized in such works as Walking Woman (I) (1932). At The Met, this elegant figure will be installed in the entrance hall of the Temple of Dendur. The Temple of Dendur was completed in 10 BCE as a commission by Caesar Augustus shortly after he became emperor of Rome. Gifted from Egypt to the United States in 1965, it has been one of the most beloved works of art at The Met since it opened to the public in 1978. In ancient Egypt, the terrace before the temple functioned as an open meeting place between the deity and larger crowds. At The Met, Giacometti's figures will stand alone or in groups on the temple platform—a presentation that echoes the artist's own compositions of figures as well as the life around the temple. The exhibition is made possible by the Kate W. Cassidy Foundation.
  →  Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple.

RAW: The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated travel, rapid technological change, and shifting geopolitics hastened artistic exchange between distant regions and different cultures. Beginning with Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt in 1798 and culminating in the paintings of Ottoman renaissance man Osman Hamdi Bey, this exhibition tells the story of how Islamic works of art made their way to European dealers, collectors, international expositions, and museums, introducing a new visual language to artists, architects, and designers. Deep admiration for the sophisticated techniques and visual language of Islamic art led Owen Jones and other influential figures to transform architecture and design in Europe and America. Artists such as Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Eugène Delacroix, and Jean-Léon Gérôme visited lands and people across the Mediterranean or imagined them from afar. They sometimes depicted what they saw and at other times conjured distant places through memory and imagination, often using Islamic objects to stage their paintings. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy is the first exhibition at The Met to explore Orientalism as its central focus, presenting not only easel paintings but also drawings, photographs, illustrated books, architecture, arms and armor, textiles, garments, glassware, ceramics, and metalwork. Highlighting The Met collection, it features approximately 180 objects from 12 Met departments along with rarely seen loans from the U.S. and abroad. Displayed across four galleries that straddle the departments of European Paintings and Islamic Art, the presentation invites visitors to approach the exhibit
  →  Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa.

RAW: Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Renaissance as “almost eternal,” today Della Robbia sculptures are often as vibrantly luminous as when they emerged from the kiln five hundred years ago. The Met has the largest, most significant collection of Della Robbia glazed terracottas in America. Most have remained in storage for decades. For the first time, Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met features in a single gallery 12 of the Museum’s masterworks by three generations of the Della Robbia family. Rescued from storage, revived through conservation, and reattributed through fresh research, these sculptures are shown with two important loans from a private collector. Another two works are exciting sculptures by Giovanni della Robbia from the Dick Wolf Collection that complement existing works in the Museum’s collection—one is a promised gift and the other, the Mystic Mandorla lunette, recently was gifted to the Museum. Together, the exhibited sculptures span monumental reliefs composed of many interlocking pieces to small statuettes, signaling the scope of the Della Robbias’ art. Collaboration within the Della Robbia workshop fostered innovation. Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met itself results from a collaborative exchange among curators, conservators, and digital specialists. Highlights include the exhibition’s centerpiece featuring 33 newly conserved interlocking pieces of a 10-foot-tall altarpiece that has been off view for 70 years. These are shown alongside a large, animated virtual reconstruction that uses 3D-scanning technology to suggest how the entire altar originally was assembled. Rediscovering Della
  →  Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop.

RAW: This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-term presidency. Rarely seen prints reveal the transatlantic circulation of news about the struggle for independence during a fractious political period. This window into the era’s print culture highlights the global dimensions of the rebellion, the contested ideas about liberty that shaped it, and its consequential outcomes. Also on view are American and European works of art that depict a range of significant individuals. These include the Wampanoag chief Metacomet, whose battles with early colonists laid the groundwork for revolution; the African American poet Phillis Wheatley, who raised her voice against an expansive tyranny in her call for emancipation; patriots and presidents such as Paul Revere and George Washington; the Mohawk leader Thayendanegea, who allied with the British in an effort to retain Indigenous sovereignty; and iconic contributors to the Declaration of Independence John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Together, these artworks acknowledge multiple complex and intertwined histories that continue to resonate in the United States and beyond, some two and half centuries later. This special installation is made possible by Kimba Wood and Frank Richardson.
  →  Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval.

RAW: This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outside of natural ecosystems but are profoundly interdependent with the rest of the natural world. Dating from around 1525 to 1775, these paintings trace a shift in European representations of nature from expressions of embeddedness toward assertions of dominance, showing how our conceptions of nature are themselves not “natural” but instead are culturally constructed. The artists’ depictions shape viewers’ experiences of the environments they portray. Overlapping themes include ancient myths that personify natural forces; the relationship between art and science through direct observation of nature; and idealizations of agricultural labor that upheld class, gender, and colonial power structures. As physical objects, paintings alter natural resources like flax, wood, and rare minerals; in turn, these materials continue to have lives of their own. This special installation is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation.
  →  Painting through landscape, environment and material relations.

RAW: Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotation, shows treasured Korean traditions. By presenting them in ways that give us a fuller picture into each object’s unique form, Flip Sides provides insight into the construction and function of works in metal, wood, ceramic, textiles, and lacquer. A Buddhist sculpture that held offerings inside, a porcelain jar of striking openwork that conceals an inner chamber, a bronze mirror with a delicately incised image, and a king’s lacquer letter box with linings featuring impressive calligraphy are among the featured objects in Flip Sides. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: March 16–October 18, 2026 Rotation 2: October 31, 2026–May 31, 2027 The exhibition is made possible by The Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art.
  →  Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects.

RAW: From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s extensive and rich history of ceramic art through approximately 350 extraordinary works presented in themes that offer fresh perspectives on the diverse forms and functions, from everyday tableware to vessels created for tea masters and elite households to modern sculptural compositions. Japan’s earliest pottery dates back more than 12,000 years, when makers shaped and fired clay vessels for cooking and storage—objects that bear the traces of these early potters’ hands. Expertise transmitted from China and Korea in medieval times facilitated the development of new Japanese techniques and wares. Over time, the reverence for prized ceramics led to finding beauty even through damage. Japanese artisans developed kintsugi, the art of repairing broken ceramics with gold lacquer, restoring the damaged object’s function while making it even more precious and valuable. Japanese cuisine and dining aesthetics inspired vessels designed to harmonize with the color and texture of food. Many porcelains from the Edo period (1615–1868) are embellished with motifs drawn from the natural world or symbols of happiness, longevity, and good fortune. Featuring refined ceramics and other artworks from the Museum’s Harry G. C. Packard Collection, this exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of this landmark acquisition that established the foundation of The Met’s Japanese art holdings. By placing ceramics in dialogue with related art forms—including lacquers, textiles, paintings, and woodblock prints—the display inspires curiosity about the multiverse of Japanese ceramics and its broader cultural
  →  Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form.

RAW: Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302). The intimate and enchanting gallery with exposed brick walls and arched portals was unveiled in the year 2000 after a renovation that reclaimed the space beneath the Museum’s Grand Staircase. In this transhistorical presentation, the Byzantine Crypt’s religious and secular jewelry, textiles, ivory objects, vessels, and architectural sculpture from Early Christian and Coptic monastic sites are complemented and enriched by contemporary sculptures, works on paper, and installations from the 1960s to present day that similarly serve as memorials, reliquaries, and tokens to ward off evil. As part of the exhibition, Adrian Piper’s editioned work Everything #4 invites viewers to contemplate its otherworldly statement and their reflection in a variety of contexts. It will be installed in the heart of the Byzantine Crypt and five other spaces across The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, listed below. The exhibition is made possible by The Jaharis Family Foundation.
  →  Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that animal’s year. February 17, 2026, marks the beginning of the Year of the Horse, a creature symbolizing power, strength, and vitality. Celebrating the Year of the Horse brings together works from The Met collection to explore the horse’s enduring nature and vital place in Chinese civilization. Domesticated in prehistoric times, this animal has shaped nearly every facet of life—from agriculture and transportation to trade, warfare, sport, and entertainment. In ancient China, horse-drawn chariots transported military commanders and the social elite, while in the Tang dynasty (618–907), tall and robust horses came to embody the strength of the state and cosmopolitan spirit of the empire. In Chinese popular culture, horses are among the most celebrated animals, and in the spiritual realm they serve as noble mounts for divine guardians believed to bring joy, protection, and prosperity to the household. This presentation, featuring a range of expressive works in ceramics, glass, jade, and metal, and woodblock prints, illuminates these roles while celebrating the horse’s power, vitality, and spirit.
  →  Asian works for the lunar new year.

RAW: In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter in the history of art. The first ever exhibition about the Savonnerie in the United States, A King’s Carpet sheds new light on The Met’s three carpets made as part of this ambitious scheme. Held in the iconic Wrightsman Galleries, it will explore the tumultuous history of these Baroque masterpieces from their conception and the harsh realities of their production to their dispersal after the French Revolution. A project of unheard-of scale, the weaving of the 92 carpets necessitated the establishment of massive workshops and an expendable workforce of orphans and adolescents with sharp eyesight and nimble fingers. Woven over 20 years, the carpets were never rolled out in the space for which they were intended, Louis XIV having turned his attention away from the Louvre to Versailles. During the Revolution, many were stripped of their royal emblems or sold, some eventually finding new homes with prominent American collectors such as J. P. Morgan and Alva Vanderbilt. This exhibition will present four complete carpets along with a selection of fragments, attesting to the scheme’s segmentation and dispersal. In addition, visitors will be able to observe textile conservators at work in an in-gallery temporary conservation studio as they repair and strengthen one of these monumental textiles.
  →  Savonnerie carpets and French court display.

RAW: Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography promised to capture the sky with unprecedented immediacy and detail, yet early technical limitations fell short of that promise. Photographers responded by painting in skies or manually combining negatives, until chemical and optical advances at the start of the 20th century made possible cloudscape photographs that rivaled paintings. Chasing Clouds follows the remarkable story of how the sky was represented during this period, tracing the depiction of clouds in works that balanced changing artistic conventions with scientific discoveries and new technologies. Opening with oil sketches from the start of the 19th century, and including paintings, drawings, and photographs from the following decades, it comes full circle in the 1920s with American photographer Alfred Stieglitz’s Equivalents, a series of cloud studies that reconciles poetic feeling and naturalistic depiction. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography.

RAW: Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in the United States—is activated by Hartt’s architectural intervention, bringing past and present into conversation. For this site-specific commission—consisting of two Direct View LED screens and echoing imagery from the panorama itself—Hartt draws on direct documentation of Versailles, the cinematic language of French New Wave Cinema, and photographs of the palace grounds by Eugene Atget to reshape the experience of The Met’s circular gallery space housing the work. Filmed at locations from Versailles to the Boulevard Périphérique and throughout the center of Paris, Peripheries explores the constant reinvention of the French capital. Hartt’s installation reconfigures movement and angles of vision, augmented through an original score by composer and musician Jeff Parker. Visitors are visually lured away from established centers within the city toward the margins—or the “peripheries”—where alternative perspectives and histories are often relegated. By engaging directly with Vanderlyn's panorama, Hartt has created a space to reconsider not only the historical painting itself but also examine ideas of representation and cultural memory within a living environment. The exhibition is made possible by Jan and Warren Adelson in honor of Eugénie Prendergast, and The Modern Circle.
  →  Architecture, migration and the edges of cities.

RAW: The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the United States. While serving in the U.S. Army as one of the Ritchie Boys, a specialized unit of German-speaking soldiers, Lewen arrived at the Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation in 1945. The Parade is rooted in the artist’s experience of these events as well as his coming of age during the tumultuous years when, as he reflected later, the parades after World War I gave way to the death marches of World War II. Experienced together as a sequence, the drawings carry viewers from military pageantry to conflict, devastation, and mourning through the cumulative force of their imagery. The power of The Parade lies not only in its historical origins but in its ability to speak across generations with urgency, asking viewers to confront the persistent cycles of violence that continue to shape our world. The exhibition's title, There Are No Words, is inspired by Lewen's own description of the format of The Parade as a wordless novel in which he explained: "there are no words . . . just the picture itself is the narrative." At the same time, the title reflects his conviction that the horrors of war ultimately defy language and description.
  →  Wordless picture sequence on war.

RAW: Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as central to the innovations of art from the mid-20th century onwards. This exhibition continues and amplifies this reevaluation, on their own terms and in dynamic relation to each other. Drawing its subtitle, Past Continuous, from a 1976 painting by Krasner, the exhibition traces parallel lives and practices—forged first by lived experience, then shadowed by memory. Krasner, born in Brooklyn to Jewish immigrant parents from what is now Ukraine, and Pollock, raised in Los Angeles and the American West, brought specific geographies and inheritances into a shared artistic context. Their early paths traced distinct strands of American modernism that would ultimately converge in the rupture known as Abstract Expressionism, a movement that valued the translation of inner feelings into dramatic visual action. In the wake of World War II, artists asked why art mattered and what it could be. For Pollock, his breakthrough was the “drip” technique, a radical mode of painting that flourished in a condensed but prolific period. Krasner’s varied practice was typified by ceaseless explorations of abstraction, often cued by her abiding interest in the possibilities of nature and color. Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous is the first major New York presentation devoted to either artist in more than 20 years. Featuring over 120 works, it is the first exhibition to look at the full arc of their careers together. The exhibition is made possible by Kenneth C. Griffin and Griffin Catalyst, Marina Kellen French, and the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation.
  →  Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence.

RAW: Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolve into atmospheric blur. What Bassman did not show she evoked in her expressive prints—products of darkroom distortion, achieved with tissues, brushes, and bleach. In an earlier era, such an approach might have precluded commercial success. Bassman’s timing, though, could not have been better; in 1941, at age 24, she took a design job at Harper’s Bazaar, where a group of artists and editors were then reimagining how the magazine should look. With them, she helped introduce an avant-garde sensibility to the American newsstand, advancing new possibilities for photography in print. In works from a remarkable gift to The Met, Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond highlights the influence and audacity of her magazine career. The exhibition flips between the New School in Manhattan and the “New Look” in Paris, charting Bassman’s course from design apprentice to art director and accomplished photographer. Its rare vintage prints, collages, and maquettes lay out an unlikely history of modernism, refashioned for the pages of the popular press. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar.

RAW: Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years, he achieved such profound success as a painter, designer, and architect that he was regarded as the pinnacle of artistic perfection for centuries after his death. Raphael: Sublime Poetry is the first comprehensive exhibition on Raphael in the United States, bringing together more than 170 of the artist’s greatest masterpieces and rarely seen treasures to illuminate the brilliance of Raphael’s extraordinary creativity. The son of a painter and poet, Raphael engaged with the foremost writers and thinkers of his age in Rome, displaying a poetic sensibility that captivated his peers and generations that followed. Follow the full breadth of his life and career, from his origins in Urbino to his rise in Florence, where he began to emerge as a peer of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, to his final, prolific decade at the papal court in Rome. To underscore the range of his genius, this presentation brings together important drawings, paintings, and tapestries from public and private collections across Europe and the United States, many of which have never been shown together. With particular attention to Raphael’s portrayal of women—from his use of nude female models for the first time in Western art to his tender depictions of the Madonna and Child—and recent scientific discoveries made using state-of-the-art technology, this exhibition offers a rare opportunity to experience the genius of an artist who helped shape the course of art history. Wolfe, Gilbert and Ildiko Butler, Debra and Leon Black, Mark Gorenberg and Cathrin Stickney, the Robert Lehman Foundation, Dinah Seiver
  →  First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael.

RAW: Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, which he collaboratively defined both publicly and behind the scenes. Morrison’s influence as an abstract expressionist painter began in 1943 when he traveled from rural Minnesota to New York City to study at the Art Students League on a scholarship. Immersing himself in the city’s vibrant cultural scenes, he studied painting and drawing, contributed to numerous exhibitions and publications, and openly challenged the mainstream art establishment of his generation. In New York, Morrison formed meaningful connections with artists including Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Lois Dodd, and Louise Nevelson, among others. His deep appreciation for urban life—specifically, industrial landscapes, jazz, and literature—permanently shaped his artistic practice and imagery. This exhibition explores how Morrison’s aesthetic inspiration and future trajectory drew from his love of New York, which he called a “Magical City.” Featuring 25 of his most important paintings and drawings from this early period, the exhibition culminates in his Horizon series. It also features rare archival materials that place Morrison at the heart of the Abstract Expressionist movement in 1940s and 1950s New York.
  →  Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work.

RAW: The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also adopted it as an experimental format for their art. Fanmania investigates why avant-garde artists incorporated fans into their work and sheds light on themes of gender, courtship, consumerism, and appropriation. Artists were attracted to the semicircular form for myriad reasons, including fascination with fans from Asia and Spain, commercial ambition, and their interest in formal and technical innovation. Displaying more than 75 artworks from across The Met collection, this multimedia exhibition features painted and printed fans from Europe and Asia as well as artworks that depict women wielding fans to explore the phenomenon of “fanmania.”
  →  Folding fans as fashion and display.

RAW: Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), and their mother, Mary Newbold Sargent (1826–1906). As the artistic family traveled seasonally through Europe, Mary encouraged her children’s creative aspirations. The siblings had a close relationship and often sketched and painted side by side. As John Singer Sargent’s bold portraits increasingly garnered critical attention, his younger sister Emily supported his career while building a body of work of her own that remained largely unseen. Drawn entirely from The Met collection, Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family takes a close look at their art and explores how paths diverged for daughter and son, revealing the challenges women artists faced in the late 19th century. Intended as a complement to The Met’s Sargent and Paris, this exhibition celebrates the recent gift—from the artists’ heirs—of 26 Emily Sargent watercolors, which will be making their debut. This generous gift continues a long legacy of family giving that formed the foundation of the Museum’s extensive Sargent holdings. Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund.
  →  Watercolours by Sargent's sister.

RAW: Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-funded initiative that provides free scientific support to art institutions nationwide. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close presents seven of these impressive drawings for the first time in forty years, spotlighting the multiyear collaboration between The Met and the Municipal Archives as well as the Museum’s ongoing commitment to sharing resources with New York City institutions. Designed by German engineer John A. Roebling (1806–1869), a pioneer in steel-wire rope technology used for suspension bridges, the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 by his son, Washington A. Roebling (1837–1926), with help from skilled assistants. After Washington became ill, his wife, Emily Warren Roebling (1843–1903), took over supervision of the project and played a crucial role in its success. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close offers fresh insights into the physical properties of these monumental drawings, informing future conservation treatments. It also highlights science’s vital role in uncovering new narratives and providing unprecedented access to artists’ creative processes. This special installation is made possible by the Mellon Foundation.
  →  Bridge construction in drawings and prints.

RAW: American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned recognizable subjects into wonderfully mysterious compositions. Introduced in the period between Dada and Surrealism, the rayographs’ transformative, magical qualities led the poet Tristan Tzara to describe them as capturing the moments “when objects dream.” The exhibition will be the first to situate this signature accomplishment in relation to Man Ray’s larger body of work of the 1910s and 1920s. Drawing from the collections of The Met and more than 50 U.S. and international lenders, the exhibition will feature approximately 60 rayographs and 100 paintings, objects, prints, drawings, films, and photographs—including some of the artist’s most iconic works—to highlight the central role of the rayograph in Man Ray’s boundary-breaking practice. “Before my eyes an image began to form, not quite a simple silhouette of the objects as in a straight photograph, but distorted and refracted … In the morning I examined the results, pinning a couple of the Rayographs—as I decided to call them—on the wall. They looked startlingly new and mysterious.” — Man Ray The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation. Goldsmith Foundation, The Daniel and Estrellita Brodsky Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Krantz and Harvey Sawikin, and Schiaparelli.
  →  Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. Each is believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that year. January 29, 2025, marks the beginning of the Year of the Snake, a creature characterized as alert, calm, and smart. Celebrating the Year of the Snake presents a remarkable selection of works drawn from the Museum’s collection illustrating the significant role that the snake plays in Chinese culture, including a 3,000-year-old bronze ritual vessel with a spout formed by joined snakes’ heads, a 13th-century pottery figure of a mischievously smiling snake, and an 18th-century exquisitely painted porcelain cup portraying a scene from the “Legend of the White Snake,” a popular folktale of love and romance between humans and fantastic creatures.
  →  Asian works featuring the snake.

RAW: Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to create and affirm their femme identities, exchanging photographs at gatherings or sharing them by mail. These snapshots—some candid, others playfully performative—were rediscovered at a Manhattan flea market in 2004 and have come to be known as the Casa Susanna photographs. The exhibition also features issues of Transvestia, an underground magazine that published the photographs along with fiction, poetry, makeup and clothing advice, and autobiographical essays by members of the community. During this period, most cross-dressers lived in isolation and shame. The exhibition presents new research into the double lives cross-dressers led as married men with established careers. The photographs also bring to light the type of woman they aimed to embody—such as the “girl next door,” the respectable housewife, the matron—a middle-class ideal of femininity that was both liberating and limiting. Casa Susanna offers insight into a significant pre-Stonewall cross-dressing scene, inviting visitors to understand this world and its connection to the lives of transgender people today. The exhibition is organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario and Les Rencontres d’Arles in collaboration with The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs.

RAW: In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 gods with many overlapping forms and traits. Subtle visual cues like what a figure wore, how they posed, or the symbols they carried helped identify them and their roles. Divine Egypt brings together almost 250 works of art and objects, many of them on loan from institutions such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Musée du Louvre, Paris, and the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, Copenhagen, to examine the imagery associated with the most important deities in ancient Egypt’s massive body of gods. Depictions of the stately falcon-headed Horus, the lion-headed Sakhmet, and the serene, shrouded Osiris reveal the striking ways the kings and people of ancient Egypt recognized and interacted with their gods. While the king had a daily direct relationship with the gods in the inner sanctuaries of great temples, people without such access found ways to connect with their gods through rituals, offerings, and objects of private devotion. This immersive look at how deities were depicted reveals the many roles they played in people’s lives, providing them with meaning in front of life’s uncertainties and the permanence of death. The exhibition is made possible by The John A. Moran Charitable Trust. Cullman, Alaina and Stirling Larkin, and Norby Anderson. The catalogue is made possible by the Kelekian Fund. Cotti.
  →  Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities.

RAW: Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome aspect in this guise. The seventh- to twenty-first-century works in this exhibition trace his depiction across the Indian subcontinent, the Himalayas, and Southeast Asia. Featuring 24 works across sculptures, paintings, musical instruments, ritual implements, and photography, the exhibition emphasizes the vitality and exuberance of Ganesha as the bringer of new beginnings. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: November 19, 2022–June 11, 2023 Rotation 2: June 17, 2023–June 11, 2024 Rotation 3: June 13, 2024–January 4, 2026
  →  Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art.

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":1,"title":"MATISSE THE PURSUIT OF HARMONY NEW YORK","raw":"“I made sculpture because what interested me in painting was the clarification of my ideas. I changed medium and worked in clay as a respite from painting when I had done absolutely all that I could for the moment. Which is to say that it was always for the purpose of organization. It was done to give order to my feelings, to seek a method that completely suited me. When I found it in sculpture, it helped me in painting.” Acquavella Galleries is pleased to present Matisse: The Pursuit of Harmony, an exhibition featuring fifty paintings, works on paper, and sculpture by Henri Matisse on loan from museums, foundations, and private collections. On view from April 9 through May 22, 2026, the exhibition traces Matisse’s investigation of form in two and three dimensions, from paintings and sculptures made at the start of the 20th century through the next five decades of his career. Although Acquavella has dealt in exceptional works by Matisse for over sixty years, this marks the gallery’s first exhibition devoted to the French artist since 1973. Henri Matisse (1869–1954) is widely regarded as the unparalleled modernist master of color, having revolutionized art with his luminous palette and lyrical color harmonies, but his experimentation with form was equally central to his artistic pursuits. In each chapter of his career, Matisse worked to refine and essentialize his approach to form and the figure. In his own words: “A work of art must be harmonious in its entirety: any superfluous detail would replace some other essential detail in the mind of the spectator.” Simplified, rhythmic forms, often inspired by the graceful, flowing lines of the arabesque, were integral to Matisse’s lifelong pursuit of harmony and balance in his art. The presentation begins with two early sculptures, The Serf (1900–04) and Madeleine I (1901), and his closely related painting Male Model (1900) and drawing Study for Madeleine (c. 1901). Of the more than eighty sculptures Matisse created, more","previousSummary":"New York. Matisse's investigation of form."}
{"i":8,"title":"POSTWAR ABSTRACTION MOVEMENT AND FORM PALM BEACH","raw":"\"In every work of art, there is a balance between control and spontaneity. It is this delicate dance that creates a sense of tension and energy.” Palm Beach, FL – Acquavella Galleries is pleased to present Postwar Abstraction: Movement and Form, a group exhibition exploring the breadth of abstract art in the second half of the 20th century from artists Carl Andre, John Chamberlain, Willem de Kooning, Richard Diebenkorn, Ellsworth Kelly, Kenneth Noland, Jackson Pollock, Jean Paul Riopelle, and David Smith. The ten featured artists pursued and pushed abstraction in new directions, resulting in their spearheading movements like Abstract Expressionism, Color Field painting, and Minimalism. When placed in dialogue with one another in this exhibition, these works show the overlap of ideas and concepts that informed the artists and these movements. The exhibition has a particularly strong concentration of abstract sculpture, with the earliest example being David Smith’s Parrot’s Circle (1958). Constructed of welded steel, its geometric composition is rendered into a nearly two-dimensional silhouette. Smith’s use of welding and torch cutting allowed for improvisation and spontaneity outside of traditional forms of sculpture-making. The artist’s fluid approach also lends a collaged quality to his work, breaking down the rigid distinctions between sculpture, painting, and drawing. Two untitled works by Smith, a work on paper from 1954 and a painting from 1957, illustrate the ease with which he incorporated painting or drawing into his sculptures, giving them what is now considered his signature planar sensibility.","previousSummary":"Palm Beach. Postwar abstract painting."}
{"i":9,"title":"PORTRAITURE: FROM CASSATT TO WARHOL NEW YORK","raw":"New York, NY – Acquavella Galleries is pleased to present Portraiture: From Cassatt to Warhol, a group exhibition exploring portraiture, with paintings and sculptures spanning over a century and different styles of representation, from Impressionism to today. Artists include Francis Bacon, Billy Al Bengston, Pierre Bonnard, Dominic Chambers, Jean Dubuffet, Nicole Eisenman, Lucian Freud, Alberto Giacometti, Damian Loeb, Henri Matisse, Joan Miró, Chris Ofili, Tom Sachs, Wayne Thiebaud, Édouard Vuillard, Andy Warhol, and Hannah Wilke. The exhibition opened at the gallery’s Palm Beach location November 20th, 2024, and will open in New York January 21st, 2025. Portraiture: From Cassatt to Warhol brings together works that delve into the techniques and methods that artists have utilized to represent their subjects in portraiture. Showing works by artists across the spectrum of the Impressionist, modern, and contemporary periods, the exhibition reflects the disparate ways of seeing and portraying, with a particular focus on the relationship between painter and model. Through these varying perspectives, the simulacrum undergoes shifts and transformations that illustrate the breadth of portraiture while delving into the genre’s inherent intimacy. Among the selection of artworks is Andy Warhol’s iconic Self-Portrait (Fright Wig) (1986). Created during the penultimate year of Warhol’s life, the silkscreen painting ranks among the artist’s most recognized and familiar images. Self-Portrait (Fright Wig) is complemented by an earlier self-portrait by the artist, Self-Portrait (1964), offering two starkly different representations of the artist at different moments in his life. Created at the outset of his career, the 1964 painting marks a starting point for Warhol’s career-long engagement with the construction of identity as it pertained to composing his public persona. The 1986 work, from his final series of portraits, continues Warhol’s enduring conflict between self and icon,","previousSummary":"New York. Impressionism to Pop."}
{"i":142,"title":"Renoir and Love","raw":"Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.","previousSummary":"Renoir gathered around the theme of love."}
{"i":144,"title":"Monet and Renoir: Painting Side by Side","raw":"In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.","previousSummary":"Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif."}
{"i":145,"title":"Yinka Shonibare and Thomas Gainsborough: A Conversation","raw":"Past meets present as one of Britain’s most celebrated works is playfully reimagined A richly dressed husband and wife sit in the English countryside. Their wealth shines through. This painting from 1750 is one of Britain’s most well-known works, showing off two people – and their privilege. But what happens when this fashionable couple and their land are ripped from the scene? British-Nigerian artist Yinka Shonibare does just that, reimagining Gainsborough’s famous piece in his own way. Through striking sculpture, Shonibare removes the heads of the people in the painting and clothes them in West African textiles.","previousSummary":"Britain's celebrated work reimagined."}
{"i":146,"title":"Van Eyck: The Portraits","raw":"Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.","previousSummary":"All of Van Eyck's portraits together."}
{"i":147,"title":"Catharina van Hemessen: Signature Works","raw":"The year is 1551. A talented young artist sits at the easel in her hometown of Antwerp, painting a small portrait with quiet power. After completing the work, she adds the words: ‘Catharina de Hemessen was painting [this] 1551’. In a time when few women worked as artists, Catharina van Hemessen proudly painted her name onto her artworks. This remarkable detail allows us to identify her work as a painter over 450 years later. Today, van Hemessen is the only 16th-century Flemish woman painter who is known to have signed her paintings. In March 2027, the National Gallery will host the first UK exhibition devoted to this pioneering painter. Through a collection of masterful small-scale paintings, the exhibition will show the defining moment a woman artist stepped into the spotlight. Visit 'Catharina van Hemessen: Signature Works’ for free and uncover this pivotal chapter in the history of art.","previousSummary":"Renaissance artist who painted herself into history."}
{"i":148,"title":"German Expressionism","raw":"Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.","previousSummary":"Fifty German Expressionist works."}
{"i":149,"title":"Take One Picture 2026","raw":"As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.","previousSummary":"Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto."}
{"i":150,"title":"Zurbarán","raw":"Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.","previousSummary":"First UK exhibition of Zurbarán."}
{"i":151,"title":"Stubbs: Portrait of a Horse","raw":"Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.","previousSummary":"George Stubbs, master of horse painting."}
{"i":152,"title":"Wright of Derby: From the Shadows","raw":"In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.","previousSummary":"Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings."}
{"i":153,"title":"ming wong: Dance of the sun on the water | Saltatio solis in aqua","raw":"Saint Sebastian is a figure who has inspired artists across generations. A Roman soldier who secretly converted to Christianity, he was persecuted for his faith by being shot with arrows. There are 14 depictions of Saint Sebastian in the National Gallery’s collection, by artists from the Pollaiuolo brothers to Gerrit van Honthorst. Our 2025 Artist in Residence, Ming Wong, continues this tradition with a new short film and installation based on the story of his martyrdom. Wong’s film, called ‘Dance of the sun on the water | Saltatio solis in aqua’, draws on paintings of Saint Sebastian and the landmark film ‘Sebastiane’ (1976) by British filmmaker Derek Jarman, setting the story inside the National Gallery itself. Like Jarman, Wong brings together objects and ideas from different periods of history. The film features a variety of references from the Renaissance to the present to reimagine the life of this iconic saint.","previousSummary":"Short film based on Saint Sebastian."}
{"i":154,"title":"Edwin Austin Abbey: By the Dawn’s Early Light","raw":"From Philadelphia to Gloucestershire, hear the story of a great American artist and his finest painting. See Edwin Austin Abbey’s huge study for ‘The Hours’, the celestial scene that decorates the ceiling of the House of Representatives Chamber, Pennsylvania State Capitol, Harrisburg. His most important work, created late in his career, it was to be his last. A friend of John Singer Sargent, Royal Academician, successful artist and illustrator – Abbey, born 1852 in Philadelphia, left the US in 1878 for the UK, where he would live for the rest of his life. He produced ‘The Hours’ in his Gloucestershire studio, then the largest art studio in Europe, from where both the study and mural were shipped to the US. Abbey’s career spanned an age of renewal in America, one of national expression, optimism and ambition that drove new, grand public architectural commissions like the State Capitol building and inspired literature and the arts.","previousSummary":"American artist and Pennsylvania Capitol ceiling."}
{"i":155,"title":"Radical Harmony","raw":"See paintings by artists including Seurat, Van Gogh, Signac and Pissarro Connect the dots as you experience the world's most significant collection of Neo-Impressionist art. When critics first saw Georges Seurat’s new style of painting, they thought it might bring about the death of painting itself. But what was it about artists like Paul Signac, Anna Boch, Jan Toorop and Henri-Edmond Cross, that ruffled so many feathers? Neo-Impressionists painted in small dots of pure colour. Viewed from a distance, the colours blend to create nuanced tones and an illusion of light. Now known as pointillism, this technique simplified form and played with colour in an entirely new way, verging on the edge of abstraction.","previousSummary":"Seurat, Van Gogh, Signac and Pissarro."}
{"i":156,"title":"Millet: Life on the Land","raw":"The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.","previousSummary":"The subjects that made Millet famous."}
{"i":157,"title":"Take One Picture 2025","raw":"See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.","previousSummary":"Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch."}
{"i":158,"title":"José María Velasco","raw":"See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.","previousSummary":"Mexico's landscape painter."}
{"i":159,"title":"The Carracci Cartoons: Myths in the Making","raw":"Two artist brothers from Bologna in northern Italy, Annibale and Agostino Carracci, visit Rome in 1594. They are about to take on a huge commission – to decorate rooms in the great Farnese Palace. A private family residence, its owner, Odoardo Farnese newly elected cardinal aged just 20, had inherited great wealth. Having finished the cardinal’s study, in 1597 they start work on the palace’s vast gallery. How to prepare? Two huge charcoal drawings on paper tell us this story. They are preparatory drawings for the hall’s monumental fresco. The word cartoon comes from the Italian ‘cartone’ meaning a large sheet of paper. As well as being a vital part of the creative process, they are works of art in their own right. Alive with mythical sea creatures, gods and goddesses, putti and crashing waves, the drawings reflect the inspiration the Carracci brothers found in Rome’s antique sculptures and recent works by their predecessors, Michelangelo and Raphael. Remarkable survivors of art in the making, the cartoons offer a window into the brothers’ ideas, creative process and technique.","previousSummary":"Carracci brothers' creative process."}
{"i":160,"title":"Siena: The Rise of Painting, 1300 ‒1350","raw":"Step into Siena. It’s the beginning of the 14th century in central Italy. A golden moment for art, a catalyst of change. Artists Duccio, Simone Martini and the brothers Pietro and Ambrogio Lorenzetti are forging a new way of painting. They paint with a drama that no one has seen before. Faces show emotion. Bodies move in space. Stories flow across panels in colourful scenes. We bring to life a vibrant city of artists collaborating, learning and looking. After centuries of separation, we reunite scenes that once formed part of Duccio’s monumental 'Maestà' altarpiece. Panels from Simone Martini’s glittering Orsini polyptych come together for the first time in living memory. This local artistic phenomenon made waves internationally. Gilded glass, illuminated manuscripts, ivory Madonnas, rugs and silks show Siena’s creative energy spilling over between painters, metalworkers, weavers and carvers across Europe.","previousSummary":"Earliest Sienese trecento paintings."}
{"i":161,"title":"Parmigianino: The Vision of Saint Jerome","raw":"Witness one of the most visionary artists of the Renaissance at work and rediscover his masterpiece that pushed art in a new direction. This exhibition explores the creation of Parmigianino’s 'The Madonna and Child with Saints', also known as ‘The Vision of Saint Jerome’. It returns to public display for the first time in 10 years following conservation. Born in the Northern Italian city of Parma, after which he was nicknamed, Girolamo Francesco Maria Mazzola (1503‒1540) was a child prodigy. He drew constantly. At age 21 he moved to Rome, where he impressed the Pope and was praised as a ‘Raphael reborn’. This altarpiece was his first major work there. In 1527, the Sack of Rome erupted around him while he finished the painting. According to legend, looting Imperial soldiers invading his studio were so amazed by it that they let him continue.","previousSummary":"Visionary Renaissance artist at work."}
{"i":162,"title":"Discover Constable & The Hay Wain","raw":"Find out what lies behind the making of 'The Hay Wain' and its iconic status in British art. Through paintings including George Morland’s building storm and the atmospheric light of William Mulready’s farrier shop, we look at how Constable’s contemporaries created rural scenes. William Blake’s mystic works take us into the realm of the spiritual landscape while we experience the poetic and political landscape through contemporary poetry and prints. We bring together sketches of the scene the artist made over twenty years before producing the finished work in his London studio. When early 19th-century visitors saw Constable’s 'Hay Wain' some found his truthful vision of the Suffolk landscape to be quite radical. Today, over 200 years later, the painting is considered a traditional image of the English countryside. This status has led artists and activists to reinterpret, edit, and react to the painting, particularly in light of our changing climate.","previousSummary":"Behind the making of The Hay Wain."}
{"i":163,"title":"Van Gogh: Poets and Lovers","raw":"Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.","previousSummary":"Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition."}
{"i":165,"title":"Hockney and Piero: A Longer Look","raw":"David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.","previousSummary":"Hockney against Piero della Francesca."}
{"i":166,"title":"Discover Degas & Miss La La","raw":"Degas’s 'Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando' takes centre stage in this exhibition that sheds light on this work with newly discovered information about the painting and its sitter. This radical Impressionist masterwork records an extraordinary moment and features a remarkable figure – the circus artist Miss La La, or Anna Albertine Olga Brown (1858‒1945). In 1879 Degas made the talented aerialist the subject of one of his most original and arresting paintings, capturing her in one of her most striking and perilous acts. Suspended from a rope held between her teeth by a leather mouthpiece, Miss La La is hoisted up towards the ceiling of the Cirque Fernando Featuring new material, from rare, previously untraced drawings of her by Degas, to entirely unpublished photographic portraits of Miss La La, the exhibition turns the spotlight on her, and on the painting, telling their story for the first time at the Gallery.","previousSummary":"The circus performer's life."}
{"i":169,"title":"ED VAN DER ELSKEN. UP CLOSE","raw":"A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.","previousSummary":"Unfiltered street energy across decades."}
{"i":170,"title":"FIEP WESTENDORP","raw":"150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.","previousSummary":"150 original drawings by the illustrator."}
{"i":171,"title":"CAREL VISSER IN THE RIJKSMUSEUM GARDENS","raw":"This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?","previousSummary":"Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century."}
{"i":174,"title":"WORN","raw":"In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.","previousSummary":"Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930."}
{"i":176,"title":"WILLEM DE KOONING AT WORK","raw":"One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. \"I have to change to stay the same\" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.","previousSummary":"120 works tracing De Kooning's process."}
{"i":177,"title":"DOCUMENT NETHERLANDS: NEW ENERGY","raw":"Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.","previousSummary":"Annual commission to a Dutch photographer."}
{"i":178,"title":"DRAWING!","raw":"Around 1600, the art of drawing experienced a true revolution in the Northern Netherlands. A group of artist friends, including Hendrick Goltzius, Jacques de Gheyn II, and Abraham Bloemaert, found each other in their drive for innovation. Together they brought the art of drawing to unprecedented heights. They experimented with all kinds of materials, techniques, and subjects, and pushed nearly every boundary. With over 100 highlights from European and American collections, this revolution in the art of drawing comes together in a major overview exhibition. The exhibition The Art of Drawing can be seen from 12 February to 23 May 2027 at the Rijksmuseum, followed by 18 June to 26 September 2027 at The Morgan Library & Museum in New York.","previousSummary":"Transformation of drawing, 100 highlights."}
{"i":179,"title":"METAMORPHOSES","raw":"Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.","previousSummary":"Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois."}
{"i":180,"title":"FAKE!","raw":"At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.","previousSummary":"Early photocollages and photomontages."}
{"i":181,"title":"SUIT YOURSELF","raw":"The intimate spotlight exhibition Suit Yourself presents the exuberant finery worn by flamboyant Dutch men in the 18th and 19th centuries, made with striped velvet, floral embroidery and rich silk fabrics.","previousSummary":"A century of men's dress."}
{"i":182,"title":"OCCUPIED CITY","raw":"The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.","previousSummary":"Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen."}
{"i":183,"title":"AT HOME IN THE 17TH CENTURY","raw":"What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.","previousSummary":"Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer."}
{"i":184,"title":"DOCUMENT NEDERLAND","raw":"The subject of asylum is in the news almost every day. All sorts of people are talking about it: from politicians, media commentators and human rights and aid organisations to members of the public who take one side or another. For Document Nederland, the Rijksmuseum’s annual photographic commission, the artist Tina Farifteh documents the Dutch asylum system. The central figure in her exhibition is a man identified only by his initial: B. Following more than four months in immigration detention at Schiphol Airport and a stay in Ter Apel asylum reception centre, B. is now in the midst of an asylum procedure. By positioning him as the narrator, she reverses the gaze on our asylum procedures: Instead of talking about asylum seekers, she literally has us listen to one of them. In doing so, Farifteh holds up a mirror to the visitor. This exhibition is not about ‘them,’ but us. Tina Farifteh is a photographer, filmmaker and visual artist whose work explores the impact of power structures on the lives of ordinary people. Her earlier works include the audiovisual installation The Flood (2021) and the short documentary Kitten or Refugee? (2023), for which she won the 2024 Silver Camera for Storytelling. Alongside Document Nederland, the Rijksmuseum’s photography gallery is presenting Document Nederland Junior, the annual photographic competition and display for students in secondary and vocational education. The competition shares its theme with the main commission. For each edition, ten young photographers are selected to take part in a masterclass, given this year by Tina Farifteh and experts from the Rijksmuseum. Their photographs will be on display in the second room of the photography gallery.","previousSummary":"Annual Dutch photography commission."}
{"i":185,"title":"ISAMU NOGUCHI","raw":"In Isamu Noguchi’s world, sculpture is everywhere. So what does his world look like? Discover his playful sculptures this summer at the free outdoor exhibition in the gardens of the Rijksmuseum.","previousSummary":"Garden sculpture devoted to Noguchi."}
{"i":186,"title":"CROSSINGS","raw":"Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.","previousSummary":"Photography from the Indian subcontinent."}
{"i":187,"title":"FIONA TAN: MONOMANIA","raw":"Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.","previousSummary":"The artist's view on the collection."}
{"i":188,"title":"ASIAN BRONZE","raw":"From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.","previousSummary":"Four thousand years of Asian bronze."}
{"i":190,"title":"LEE UFAN","raw":"Korean artist Lee Ufan describes his work as ‘art of the encounter’. Find time this summer for your very own calm encounter with Lee Ufan’s sculptures, among the hustle and bustle of museum square.","previousSummary":"Garden sculpture devoted to Lee Ufan."}
{"i":546,"title":"Musical Bodies","raw":"From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, and mythology. Musical Bodies is the first major exhibition to explore the relationship between musical instruments and the body by bringing together some 130 instruments, paintings, sculptures, drawings, and more to illuminate how we express who we are, what we value, and what we believe. With works from The Met collection and institutions and collectors around the world, the exhibition explores 4,000 years of art and music history, from ancient Egyptian rattles and musical masterpieces by Titian and Degas to instrument-inspired apparel and one of Prince’s most notable guitars. Musical Bodies will resonate with visitors of all ages, whether you are a musician, a devoted listener, or simply curious about human expression. The exhibition is made possible by Barbara Tober, the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary C. and James W. Fosburgh Publications Fund.","previousSummary":"Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection."}
{"i":547,"title":"Costume Art","raw":"The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other collecting areas. Pairings between fashions and artworks will present a spectrum of connections and experiences: from the formal to the conceptual, the aesthetic to the political, the individual to the universal, the illustrative to the symbolic, and the playful to the profound. These pairings are organized into a series of thematic body types that reflect their pervasiveness and endurance through time and cultures. Costume Art is the inaugural exhibition in the new, nearly 12,000-square-foot galleries adjacent to the Great Hall. This space will display The Costume Institute’s annual spring show and, at times, shows from the Museum’s other curatorial departments, including those that explore the intersection of fashion and art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here","previousSummary":"Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries."}
{"i":548,"title":"Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy","raw":"The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated travel, rapid technological change, and shifting geopolitics hastened artistic exchange between distant regions and different cultures. Beginning with Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt in 1798 and culminating in the paintings of Ottoman renaissance man Osman Hamdi Bey, this exhibition tells the story of how Islamic works of art made their way to European dealers, collectors, international expositions, and museums, introducing a new visual language to artists, architects, and designers. Deep admiration for the sophisticated techniques and visual language of Islamic art led Owen Jones and other influential figures to transform architecture and design in Europe and America. Artists such as Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Eugène Delacroix, and Jean-Léon Gérôme visited lands and people across the Mediterranean or imagined them from afar. They sometimes depicted what they saw and at other times conjured distant places through memory and imagination, often using Islamic objects to stage their paintings. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy is the first exhibition at The Met to explore Orientalism as its central focus, presenting not only easel paintings but also drawings, photographs, illustrated books, architecture, arms and armor, textiles, garments, glassware, ceramics, and metalwork. Highlighting The Met collection, it features approximately 180 objects from 12 Met departments along with rarely seen loans from the U.S. and abroad. Displayed across four galleries that straddle the departments of European Paintings and Islamic Art, the presentation invites visitors to approach the exhibit","previousSummary":"Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa."}
{"i":549,"title":"A King’s Carpet: Louis XIV and the Savonnerie","raw":"In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter in the history of art. The first ever exhibition about the Savonnerie in the United States, A King’s Carpet sheds new light on The Met’s three carpets made as part of this ambitious scheme. Held in the iconic Wrightsman Galleries, it will explore the tumultuous history of these Baroque masterpieces from their conception and the harsh realities of their production to their dispersal after the French Revolution. A project of unheard-of scale, the weaving of the 92 carpets necessitated the establishment of massive workshops and an expendable workforce of orphans and adolescents with sharp eyesight and nimble fingers. Woven over 20 years, the carpets were never rolled out in the space for which they were intended, Louis XIV having turned his attention away from the Louvre to Versailles. During the Revolution, many were stripped of their royal emblems or sold, some eventually finding new homes with prominent American collectors such as J. P. Morgan and Alva Vanderbilt. This exhibition will present four complete carpets along with a selection of fragments, attesting to the scheme’s segmentation and dispersal. In addition, visitors will be able to observe textile conservators at work in an in-gallery temporary conservation studio as they repair and strengthen one of these monumental textiles.","previousSummary":"Savonnerie carpets and French court display."}
{"i":550,"title":"Futurism, Constructivism, and Dada in Georgia, 1917–1928","raw":"This exhibition highlights modernist and avant-garde artist publications and collaborations created in the country of Georgia between 1917 and 1928. Under Russian rule from the early 19th century until the collapse of the Russian Empire in 1917, Georgia enjoyed a brief period as an independent, democratic republic from 1918 to 1921. During this time, the Georgian city of Tiflis (renamed Tbilisi in 1936) was a convening point for artists and writers from a wide range of backgrounds, nationalities, ethnicities, and artistic tendencies. Art and literary cafes flourished, providing supportive environments for avant-garde poetry recitations, lectures, performances, and exhibitions. This exhibition offers an introduction to the distinctive styles and movements that developed in Tiflis during this period and their manifestations in print, revealing a history of modernist art beyond Western Europe. Featured publications show references to Cubism, Futurism, Expressionism, Constructivism, and Dada, fused with elements of regional culture, folklore, and medieval art. The objects on display will be available for consultation in our Reading Room by appointment at the conclusion of the exhibition. For information about using the library and current library hours, please visit here.","previousSummary":"The avant-garde in Tbilisi during Georgia's brief independence."}
{"i":551,"title":"Independence and Identity: Selections from the Department of Drawings and Prints","raw":"The Department of Drawings and Prints boasts more than one million drawings, prints, and illustrated books made in Europe and the Americas from around 1400 to the present day. Because of their number and sensitivity to light, the works can only be exhibited for a limited period. To highlight the vast range of works on paper, the department organizes four rotations a year in the Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Gallery. Each installation is the product of a collaboration among curators and consists of up to 100 objects grouped by artist, technique, style, period, or subject. Independence and Identity brings together works that explore ideas and ideals of autonomy—creative, social, and political. A special section of the installation, for example, explores the visual culture of the American Revolution. Planned in connection with an exhibition on view in The Met’s American Wing through August 2, the selection of prints presented here focuses on the role of New York within the broader struggle for nationhood. Questions of artistic freedom come into play in a section dedicated to the stylistic and technical innovations of Edgar Degas, Mary Cassatt, Camille Pissarro, and other late nineteenth-century printmakers. Bold prints by WPA artist Joseph Vogel, meanwhile, attend to various definitions of autonomy through meditations on physical and conceptual experiences of vision and blindness, ability and disability. Elsewhere in the gallery, images of architectural icons, including Roy Liechtenstein’s spectacular Cathedral series, point to our enduring fascination with and complex relationship to age-old monuments—repositories for collective and individual histories and aspirations. Finally, works by artists ranging from Vincent van Gogh to Elizabeth Catlett reveal the persistence of rural labor as a pictorial subject, whether celebrating communion with the land, calling for sympathy and reform, or affirming urban viewers’ own social identities.","previousSummary":"Works on paper addressing independence movements."}
{"i":552,"title":"Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met","raw":"Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Renaissance as “almost eternal,” today Della Robbia sculptures are often as vibrantly luminous as when they emerged from the kiln five hundred years ago. The Met has the largest, most significant collection of Della Robbia glazed terracottas in America. Most have remained in storage for decades. For the first time, Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met features in a single gallery 12 of the Museum’s masterworks by three generations of the Della Robbia family. Rescued from storage, revived through conservation, and reattributed through fresh research, these sculptures are shown with two important loans from a private collector. Another two works are exciting sculptures by Giovanni della Robbia from the Dick Wolf Collection that complement existing works in the Museum’s collection—one is a promised gift and the other, the Mystic Mandorla lunette, recently was gifted to the Museum. Together, the exhibited sculptures span monumental reliefs composed of many interlocking pieces to small statuettes, signaling the scope of the Della Robbias’ art. Collaboration within the Della Robbia workshop fostered innovation. Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met itself results from a collaborative exchange among curators, conservators, and digital specialists. Highlights include the exhibition’s centerpiece featuring 33 newly conserved interlocking pieces of a 10-foot-tall altarpiece that has been off view for 70 years. These are shown alongside a large, animated virtual reconstruction that uses 3D-scanning technology to suggest how the entire altar originally was assembled. Rediscovering Della","previousSummary":"Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop."}
{"i":553,"title":"Cottage Industry: The Val-Kill Furniture Shop","raw":"Established in 1926 by first lady Eleanor Roosevelt and fellow activists Nancy Cook and her life partner, Marion Dickerman, along with Caroline O’Day, the furniture manufacturing venture known as Val-Kill Industries revived historical furniture traditions and drew crucial inspiration from The Met’s early American holdings. In honor of the 100th anniversary of Val-Kill's founding, Cottage Industry: The Val-Kill Furniture Shop celebrates this groundbreaking enterprise, which was led by women and shaped by immigrant and rural craftspeople. Featuring loans from the Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Site as well as the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum, the exhibition offers a fresh perspective on the American Wing's historic collections while highlighting the enduring connections between craft, design, and social reform. Bringing together over 30 works, Cottage Industry features rare examples of Val-Kill furniture alongside conceptual designs and templates that illuminate the workshop's creative process and collaborative spirit. Highlights include finely crafted desks, tables, and chairs from Eleanor Roosevelt’s home in Hyde Park. In addition, the exhibition considers complementary Arts and Crafts furniture by Gustav Stickley and the Byrdcliffe Colony as well as reflects on Val-Kill's legacy through Depression-era prints, painting, and sculpture. Presented alongside historical furniture from The Met's American Wing, these works reveal how the Museum's collections inspired Val-Kill's designs while offering visitors a closer look at the artistry, craftsmanship, and progressive ideals that defined this pioneering workshop. The exhibition is made possible by the Richard Hampton Jenrette Americana Fund.","previousSummary":"Eleanor Roosevelt's Val-Kill workshop."}
{"i":554,"title":"City of Memory: Nanjing in the Seventeenth Century","raw":"Throughout Chinese history, the city of Nanjing served as the capital of multiple dynasties. Each time a dynasty was overthrown, it left behind another layer of cultural memory, creating an atmosphere in which artists found themselves surrounded by the past. Material traces of history—temples, city walls, ancient trees—blended with less tangible remains, such as views that had inspired famous artists and poetic verses they had written. In 1644, the Ming dynasty was violently overthrown, and the Qing took its place. A new layer of reminiscence was added, sparking feelings of loss and nostalgia, as the people of Nanjing saw their world shattered and another dynasty—their own—consigned to the realm of history. City of Memory: Nanjing in the Seventeenth Century explores how artists lived and worked in this charged environment in the decades before and after the fall of the Ming dynasty. Through a selection of about 100 objects, mostly from The Met collection, the exhibition illuminates both the city’s lore and complex history as well as the evolution of Nanjing painting from the 1640s to the 1680s, introducing key figures, genres, and styles. Artworks donated to The Met by Julia and John Curtis have inspired and enriched this exhibition.","previousSummary":"Chinese painting from the Ming–Qing transition."}
{"i":556,"title":"Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew","raw":"Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotation, shows treasured Korean traditions. By presenting them in ways that give us a fuller picture into each object’s unique form, Flip Sides provides insight into the construction and function of works in metal, wood, ceramic, textiles, and lacquer. A Buddhist sculpture that held offerings inside, a porcelain jar of striking openwork that conceals an inner chamber, a bronze mirror with a delicately incised image, and a king’s lacquer letter box with linings featuring impressive calligraphy are among the featured objects in Flip Sides. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: March 16–October 18, 2026 Rotation 2: October 31, 2026–May 31, 2027 The exhibition is made possible by The Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art.","previousSummary":"Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects."}
{"i":557,"title":"Celebrating the Year of the Horse","raw":"The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that animal’s year. February 17, 2026, marks the beginning of the Year of the Horse, a creature symbolizing power, strength, and vitality. Celebrating the Year of the Horse brings together works from The Met collection to explore the horse’s enduring nature and vital place in Chinese civilization. Domesticated in prehistoric times, this animal has shaped nearly every facet of life—from agriculture and transportation to trade, warfare, sport, and entertainment. In ancient China, horse-drawn chariots transported military commanders and the social elite, while in the Tang dynasty (618–907), tall and robust horses came to embody the strength of the state and cosmopolitan spirit of the empire. In Chinese popular culture, horses are among the most celebrated animals, and in the spiritual realm they serve as noble mounts for divine guardians believed to bring joy, protection, and prosperity to the household. This presentation, featuring a range of expressive works in ceramics, glass, jade, and metal, and woodblock prints, illuminates these roles while celebrating the horse’s power, vitality, and spirit.","previousSummary":"Asian works for the lunar new year."}
{"i":558,"title":"Household Gods: Hindu Devotional Prints, 1860–1930","raw":"In Hinduism, the act of darshan, or “seeing god,” is central to worship. This intimate exchange between deity and devotee traditionally takes place in the temple. But within each home is also a shrine, dedicated to that householder’s chosen deity. The need to display an image of the divine in the home was traditionally fulfilled by small icons made of clay or metal. In the mid-19th century, new technologies were introduced into India, first photography and then the chromolithographic press. The latter permitted the production of inexpensive prints of the Hindu gods for mass consumption. These proved immensely popular and for the first time in India, even the humblest home could afford a colorful icon of their chosen god to display in the household shrine. Household Gods: Hindu Devotional Prints, 1860–1930 presents the first encyclopedic exhibition of these chromolithographic prints from the pioneering studio presses of Calcutta (Kolkata), Poona (Pune), and Bombay (Mumbai). These mass-produced prints became a powerful means of expressing Indian religious identity at a time when the country was experiencing the first stirrings of the Independence movement. Featuring approximately 120 works, shown in four rotations, from The Met’s collection of chromolithographic prints, along with paintings and portable triptych shrines, Household Gods provides a unique window on the vibrant tradition of Indian devotional imagery on the cusp of modernity. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: January 24–May 25, 2026 Rotation 2: May 30–October 11, 2026 Rotation 3: October 17, 2026–February 21, 2027 Rotation 4: February 27–June 27, 2027","previousSummary":"Hindu devotional chromolithographs and domestic devotion."}
{"i":559,"title":"The Infinite Artistry of Japanese Ceramics","raw":"From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s extensive and rich history of ceramic art through approximately 350 extraordinary works presented in themes that offer fresh perspectives on the diverse forms and functions, from everyday tableware to vessels created for tea masters and elite households to modern sculptural compositions. Japan’s earliest pottery dates back more than 12,000 years, when makers shaped and fired clay vessels for cooking and storage—objects that bear the traces of these early potters’ hands. Expertise transmitted from China and Korea in medieval times facilitated the development of new Japanese techniques and wares. Over time, the reverence for prized ceramics led to finding beauty even through damage. Japanese artisans developed kintsugi, the art of repairing broken ceramics with gold lacquer, restoring the damaged object’s function while making it even more precious and valuable. Japanese cuisine and dining aesthetics inspired vessels designed to harmonize with the color and texture of food. Many porcelains from the Edo period (1615–1868) are embellished with motifs drawn from the natural world or symbols of happiness, longevity, and good fortune. Featuring refined ceramics and other artworks from the Museum’s Harry G. C. Packard Collection, this exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of this landmark acquisition that established the foundation of The Met’s Japanese art holdings. By placing ceramics in dialogue with related art forms—including lacquers, textiles, paintings, and woodblock prints—the display inspires curiosity about the multiverse of Japanese ceramics and its broader cultural","previousSummary":"Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form."}
{"i":560,"title":"Ecologies of Painting","raw":"This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outside of natural ecosystems but are profoundly interdependent with the rest of the natural world. Dating from around 1525 to 1775, these paintings trace a shift in European representations of nature from expressions of embeddedness toward assertions of dominance, showing how our conceptions of nature are themselves not “natural” but instead are culturally constructed. The artists’ depictions shape viewers’ experiences of the environments they portray. Overlapping themes include ancient myths that personify natural forces; the relationship between art and science through direct observation of nature; and idealizations of agricultural labor that upheld class, gender, and colonial power structures. As physical objects, paintings alter natural resources like flax, wood, and rare minerals; in turn, these materials continue to have lives of their own. This special installation is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation.","previousSummary":"Painting through landscape, environment and material relations."}
{"i":561,"title":"Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt","raw":"Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302). The intimate and enchanting gallery with exposed brick walls and arched portals was unveiled in the year 2000 after a renovation that reclaimed the space beneath the Museum’s Grand Staircase. In this transhistorical presentation, the Byzantine Crypt’s religious and secular jewelry, textiles, ivory objects, vessels, and architectural sculpture from Early Christian and Coptic monastic sites are complemented and enriched by contemporary sculptures, works on paper, and installations from the 1960s to present day that similarly serve as memorials, reliquaries, and tokens to ward off evil. As part of the exhibition, Adrian Piper’s editioned work Everything #4 invites viewers to contemplate its otherworldly statement and their reflection in a variety of contexts. It will be installed in the heart of the Byzantine Crypt and five other spaces across The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, listed below. The exhibition is made possible by The Jaharis Family Foundation.","previousSummary":"Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries."}
{"i":562,"title":"Chasing Clouds","raw":"Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography promised to capture the sky with unprecedented immediacy and detail, yet early technical limitations fell short of that promise. Photographers responded by painting in skies or manually combining negatives, until chemical and optical advances at the start of the 20th century made possible cloudscape photographs that rivaled paintings. Chasing Clouds follows the remarkable story of how the sky was represented during this period, tracing the depiction of clouds in works that balanced changing artistic conventions with scientific discoveries and new technologies. Opening with oil sketches from the start of the 19th century, and including paintings, drawings, and photographs from the following decades, it comes full circle in the 1920s with American photographer Alfred Stieglitz’s Equivalents, a series of cloud studies that reconciles poetic feeling and naturalistic depiction. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.","previousSummary":"Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography."}
{"i":563,"title":"The Genesis Facade Commission: Liu Wei, Speculation","raw":"Beijing-based artist Liu Wei (born 1972) inspires visitors to ponder cycles of rupture and mending for The Genesis Facade Commission in 2026. Known for monumental sculptural installations that evoke awe and a sense of urgency, Liu will create four large-scale sculptures for The Met’s Fifth Avenue exterior. Using a variety of materials and remixing familiar motifs—fragments from the urban environment, historical sources, and bodily forms—Liu Wei invites contemplation, surprise, and revelation to pierce through our perceptions of reality with a blend of rawness and refinement. In The Met’s four sculptures, the recurring motif of the human hand—so rich in art historical and cultural associations—emerges as a point of connection between the recognizable and the fantastical. A key figure of a generation of artists from China who sought to define “conceptual art” on their own terms, Liu Wei has addressed realities of our time through a wide range of media, from photography and painting, to video, sculpture, and installation, since the late 1990s. He has developed a body of work that challenges art historical cliches across forms and styles and is known for his impressive command of sites and scale. Speculation is shaped by the artist’s experience living in the age of globalization, especially in a rapidly modernizing China during a period of dramatic economic, political, and social transformation. Liu’s project for The Genesis Facade Commission is his first major presentation in the United States and the seventh in The Met’s annual commission series. Additional funding is provided by Audrey Ou, Marietta Wu and Thomas Yamamoto, Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley, and White Cube.","previousSummary":"Liu Wei's sculptures for the facade niches."}
{"i":564,"title":"David Hartt: Peripheries","raw":"Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in the United States—is activated by Hartt’s architectural intervention, bringing past and present into conversation. For this site-specific commission—consisting of two Direct View LED screens and echoing imagery from the panorama itself—Hartt draws on direct documentation of Versailles, the cinematic language of French New Wave Cinema, and photographs of the palace grounds by Eugene Atget to reshape the experience of The Met’s circular gallery space housing the work. Filmed at locations from Versailles to the Boulevard Périphérique and throughout the center of Paris, Peripheries explores the constant reinvention of the French capital. Hartt’s installation reconfigures movement and angles of vision, augmented through an original score by composer and musician Jeff Parker. Visitors are visually lured away from established centers within the city toward the margins—or the “peripheries”—where alternative perspectives and histories are often relegated. By engaging directly with Vanderlyn's panorama, Hartt has created a space to reconsider not only the historical painting itself but also examine ideas of representation and cultural memory within a living environment. The exhibition is made possible by Jan and Warren Adelson in honor of Eugénie Prendergast, and The Modern Circle.","previousSummary":"Architecture, migration and the edges of cities."}
{"i":565,"title":"There Are No Words: Si Lewen's Parade","raw":"The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the United States. While serving in the U.S. Army as one of the Ritchie Boys, a specialized unit of German-speaking soldiers, Lewen arrived at the Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation in 1945. The Parade is rooted in the artist’s experience of these events as well as his coming of age during the tumultuous years when, as he reflected later, the parades after World War I gave way to the death marches of World War II. Experienced together as a sequence, the drawings carry viewers from military pageantry to conflict, devastation, and mourning through the cumulative force of their imagery. The power of The Parade lies not only in its historical origins but in its ability to speak across generations with urgency, asking viewers to confront the persistent cycles of violence that continue to shape our world. The exhibition's title, There Are No Words, is inspired by Lewen's own description of the format of The Parade as a wordless novel in which he explained: \"there are no words . . . just the picture itself is the narrative.\" At the same time, the title reflects his conviction that the horrors of war ultimately defy language and description.","previousSummary":"Wordless picture sequence on war."}
{"i":566,"title":"Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous","raw":"Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as central to the innovations of art from the mid-20th century onwards. This exhibition continues and amplifies this reevaluation, on their own terms and in dynamic relation to each other. Drawing its subtitle, Past Continuous, from a 1976 painting by Krasner, the exhibition traces parallel lives and practices—forged first by lived experience, then shadowed by memory. Krasner, born in Brooklyn to Jewish immigrant parents from what is now Ukraine, and Pollock, raised in Los Angeles and the American West, brought specific geographies and inheritances into a shared artistic context. Their early paths traced distinct strands of American modernism that would ultimately converge in the rupture known as Abstract Expressionism, a movement that valued the translation of inner feelings into dramatic visual action. In the wake of World War II, artists asked why art mattered and what it could be. For Pollock, his breakthrough was the “drip” technique, a radical mode of painting that flourished in a condensed but prolific period. Krasner’s varied practice was typified by ceaseless explorations of abstraction, often cued by her abiding interest in the possibilities of nature and color. Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous is the first major New York presentation devoted to either artist in more than 20 years. Featuring over 120 works, it is the first exhibition to look at the full arc of their careers together. The exhibition is made possible by Kenneth C. Griffin and Griffin Catalyst, Marina Kellen French, and the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation.","previousSummary":"Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence."}
{"i":567,"title":"Designing the Gilded Age: Drawings from the Studios of Louis C. Tiffany","raw":"The dazzling stained-glass windows, lamps, mosaics, and interiors from the studios of the visionary American artist Louis Comfort Tiffany—hallmarks of the Gilded Age—began as drawings created by the many talented designers in Tiffany’s studios. Designing the Gilded Age: Drawings from the Studios of Louis C. Tiffany showcases rare design drawings to take us behind the scenes of the studios where the drawings were made and ultimately transformed into enduring works of art. Intended for commissions dating from the mid-1880s through the 1920s in the U.S. and internationally, the nearly 120 luminous watercolor drawings present the first step in the artistic process for interiors and decorations for the grand mansions, civic and sacred spaces, and other buildings created during America’s Gilded Age, the post–Civil War era that saw an unprecedented accumulation of wealth. Many of the drawings document works that have since been lost, damaged, or destroyed, while others showcase ideas for designs that were never realized. The exhibition also brings together extraordinary stained-glass windows, mosaics, enamelwork, and examples of the studio’s iconic lamps in side-by-side displays with their original designs, allowing a rare view of the journey from artistic conception to finished product. Virtually everything produced in Tiffany’s workshops was the result of a collaborative process; the initial steps took place in the studio where artists Tiffany hired—often émigrés and women—realized his vision. The featured drawings, all from The Met collection, have never before been studied in depth, and the exhibition celebrates the decades-long conservation initiative that restored them to their full beauty. Along with new insights into the artists’ process and design inspiration, the drawings offer a unique opportunity to peel back the layers of some of the most heralded creations produced by Tiffany's legendary studios. The catalogue is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigm","previousSummary":"Drawings from Tiffany's decorating studios."}
{"i":568,"title":"Across Wine-Dark Seas: Art and Identity beyond Ancient Greece","raw":"Explore the far-reaching trade networks that shaped the art and mythology of ancient Greece and the wider Mediterranean. During the eighth to early fifth century BCE, when maritime trade routes allowed the Greeks to travel great distances, Mediterranean artists found inspiration by leaving their homeland for places abroad. The period’s major artistic and cultural innovations—the rise of the city-state; the appearance of monumental Greek temples from Ionia to Sicily, southern Italy, north Africa, and southern France; festivals including the Olympic Games; the first use of the Greek alphabet, borrowed from the Phoenicians; and the Homeric epics the Iliad and the Odyssey—corresponded with a time of intense cultural interchange. This increased contact between the Greeks and other cultures had a profound effect on Greek art as well as the art of the people they encountered. Across Wine-Dark Seas: Art and Identity beyond Ancient Greece presents more than 180 exceptional works produced during this time. With objects from different regions in various sizes and media—including stone, metal, terracotta, glass, and amber—it sheds light on the many ways the Greeks were influenced by the artistic styles, techniques, and traditions they encountered. Organized geographically—from the Eastern Mediterranean and West Asia; Egypt and North Africa; Italy, Sicily and Sardinia; Western Mediterranean and Europe; and the Balkans and the Black Sea—the exhibition provides a broad and complex picture of the regions as a dynamic network in which Greece was only a part. The ancient Greeks often defined their place in the world by incorporating stories, myths, and images of non-Greeks into their art. One key object, a terracotta drinking cup, depicts Herakles traveling far west across the sea in the enormous cauldron of the sun god Helios, an image that evokes the uncertain voyages undertaken by the Greeks to the limits of the known world, meeting unfamiliar terrain. By exploring the sheer numbe","previousSummary":"Greek visual culture around the Mediterranean."}
{"i":570,"title":"Giacometti in the Temple of Dendur","raw":"In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the great sculptors of the 20th century in dialogue with the ancient civilization that strongly influenced his art and his practice. Throughout his career, Giacometti showed a particular fascination for the art of ancient Egypt. The Egyptian statues he saw in Italy as a young artist made a lasting impression on his visual repertoire, and after he moved to Paris, he regularly visited the Egyptian galleries of the Louvre. His formal dialogue with Egypt can be seen in sketches of walking figures in profile, which were later realized in such works as Walking Woman (I) (1932). At The Met, this elegant figure will be installed in the entrance hall of the Temple of Dendur. The Temple of Dendur was completed in 10 BCE as a commission by Caesar Augustus shortly after he became emperor of Rome. Gifted from Egypt to the United States in 1965, it has been one of the most beloved works of art at The Met since it opened to the public in 1978. In ancient Egypt, the terrace before the temple functioned as an open meeting place between the deity and larger crowds. At The Met, Giacometti's figures will stand alone or in groups on the temple platform—a presentation that echoes the artist's own compositions of figures as well as the life around the temple. The exhibition is made possible by the Kate W. Cassidy Foundation.","previousSummary":"Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple."}
{"i":571,"title":"Revolution!","raw":"This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-term presidency. Rarely seen prints reveal the transatlantic circulation of news about the struggle for independence during a fractious political period. This window into the era’s print culture highlights the global dimensions of the rebellion, the contested ideas about liberty that shaped it, and its consequential outcomes. Also on view are American and European works of art that depict a range of significant individuals. These include the Wampanoag chief Metacomet, whose battles with early colonists laid the groundwork for revolution; the African American poet Phillis Wheatley, who raised her voice against an expansive tyranny in her call for emancipation; patriots and presidents such as Paul Revere and George Washington; the Mohawk leader Thayendanegea, who allied with the British in an effort to retain Indigenous sovereignty; and iconic contributors to the Declaration of Independence John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Together, these artworks acknowledge multiple complex and intertwined histories that continue to resonate in the United States and beyond, some two and half centuries later. This special installation is made possible by Kimba Wood and Frank Richardson.","previousSummary":"Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval."}
{"i":572,"title":"Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond","raw":"Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolve into atmospheric blur. What Bassman did not show she evoked in her expressive prints—products of darkroom distortion, achieved with tissues, brushes, and bleach. In an earlier era, such an approach might have precluded commercial success. Bassman’s timing, though, could not have been better; in 1941, at age 24, she took a design job at Harper’s Bazaar, where a group of artists and editors were then reimagining how the magazine should look. With them, she helped introduce an avant-garde sensibility to the American newsstand, advancing new possibilities for photography in print. In works from a remarkable gift to The Met, Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond highlights the influence and audacity of her magazine career. The exhibition flips between the New School in Manhattan and the “New Look” in Paris, charting Bassman’s course from design apprentice to art director and accomplished photographer. Its rare vintage prints, collages, and maquettes lay out an unlikely history of modernism, refashioned for the pages of the popular press. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.","previousSummary":"Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar."}
{"i":573,"title":"Gothic by Design: The Dawn of Architectural Draftsmanship","raw":"Long before the towers of Gothic cathedrals could pierce the sky, architects outlined their vision and ambitions by creating intricate designs. The Gothic era, known for soaring structures like Notre-Dame in Paris, produced some of the Western world’s most breathtaking buildings. Their overall height, tall spires, pointed arches, and light-filled spaces were a striking departure from the more rounded and fortress-like features of the preceding Romanesque period. These innovative elements resulted from a new focus on the design process that is documented in original architectural drawings. Gothic by Design: The Dawn of Architectural Draftsmanship reveals how master masons and other artists began to visualize and communicate their complex ideas for cathedrals and other architecture-inspired structures in drawings and, later, prints. Between the 13th and 16th century, these little-known artworks on parchment and paper became a significant factor in the stylistic evolution of Gothic architecture and art at large. This rare presentation of more than 90 works of art—drawings and prints alongside goldsmith works, architectural elements, sculpture, and painting—sheds new light on the artistic choices and expansive knowledge that informed the Gothic building practice. Explore the vision, imagination, and skillful artistry embedded in the carefully drawn plans of medieval architects and other artists of the day. The exhibition is made possible by the Placido Arango Fund and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund.","previousSummary":"Architectural drawing in the Gothic period."}
{"i":574,"title":"A Passion for Jade: The Bishop Collection","raw":"More than a hundred remarkable objects from the Heber Bishop collection, including carvings of jade, the most esteemed stone in China, and many other hardstones, are on view in this focused presentation. The refined works represent the sophisticated art of Chinese gemstone carvers during the Qing dynasty (1644–1911) as well as the highly accomplished skills of Mogul Indian (1526–1857) craftsmen, which provided an exotic inspiration to their Chinese counterparts. Also on view are a set of Chinese stone-working tools and illustrations of jade workshops, which will introduce the traditional method of working jade. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions.","previousSummary":"Heber Bishop's jade collection."}
{"i":575,"title":"Embracing Color: Enamel in Chinese Decorative Arts, 1300–1900","raw":"Enamel decoration is a significant element of Chinese decorative arts that has long been overlooked. This exhibition reveals the aesthetic, technical, and cultural achievement of Chinese enamel wares by demonstrating the transformative role of enamel during the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1644–1911) dynasties. The first transformational moment occurred in the late 14th to 15th century, when the introduction of cloisonné enamel from the West, along with the development of porcelain with overglaze enamels, led to a shift away from a monochromatic palette to colorful works. The second transformation occurred in the late 17th to 18th century, when European enameling materials and techniques were brought to the Qing court and more subtle and varied color tones were developed on enamels applied over porcelain, metal, glass, and other mediums. In both moments, Chinese artists did not simply adopt or copy foreign techniques; they actively created new colors and styles that reflected their own taste. The more than 100 objects on view are drawn mainly from The Met collection. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: July 4, 2022–April 30, 2023 Rotation 2: May 20, 2023–March 24, 2024 Rotation 3: April 13, 2024–February 16, 2025 Rotation 4: March 1, 2025–January 20, 2026 Rotation 5: January 22–June 28, 2026 This exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. This exhibition is part of Festival of New York, a citywide celebration featuring 200+ diverse organizations with events and exhibitions from Memorial Day to Labor Day 2022.","previousSummary":"Cloisonné and painted enamel across six centuries."}
{"i":576,"title":"Raphael: Sublime Poetry","raw":"Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years, he achieved such profound success as a painter, designer, and architect that he was regarded as the pinnacle of artistic perfection for centuries after his death. Raphael: Sublime Poetry is the first comprehensive exhibition on Raphael in the United States, bringing together more than 170 of the artist’s greatest masterpieces and rarely seen treasures to illuminate the brilliance of Raphael’s extraordinary creativity. The son of a painter and poet, Raphael engaged with the foremost writers and thinkers of his age in Rome, displaying a poetic sensibility that captivated his peers and generations that followed. Follow the full breadth of his life and career, from his origins in Urbino to his rise in Florence, where he began to emerge as a peer of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, to his final, prolific decade at the papal court in Rome. To underscore the range of his genius, this presentation brings together important drawings, paintings, and tapestries from public and private collections across Europe and the United States, many of which have never been shown together. With particular attention to Raphael’s portrayal of women—from his use of nude female models for the first time in Western art to his tender depictions of the Madonna and Child—and recent scientific discoveries made using state-of-the-art technology, this exhibition offers a rare opportunity to experience the genius of an artist who helped shape the course of art history. Wolfe, Gilbert and Ildiko Butler, Debra and Leon Black, Mark Gorenberg and Cathrin Stickney, the Robert Lehman Foundation, Dinah Seiver","previousSummary":"First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael."}
{"i":577,"title":"Making It Modern: European Ceramics from the Martin Eidelberg Collection","raw":"Ceramic artists in Europe at the turn of the century sought to break from the past by developing new, distinctive modes of making. With a renewed interest in the natural world as a source of artistic inspiration, they experimented with decoration, forms, and ideas to make their art modern. Making It Modern: European Ceramics from the Martin Eidelberg Collection celebrates Dr. Martin Eidelberg’s gift to The Met of approximately 80 ceramic works dating from the 1880s to 1910s. Although the years in which the Eidelberg ceramics were produced coincided with the emergence of the popular Art Nouveau movement in which artists brought abstracted forms from nature into their work, few of these pieces align closely with the common conception of that style. Instead, these ceramics reflect the desire for individual artistic expression and the enormous creativity that make this period such a rich chapter in European ceramic history. This exhibition is accompanied by an issue of The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin. The Met’s quarterly Bulletin program is supported, in part, by the Lila Acheson Wallace Fund for The Metropolitan Museum of Art, established by the co-founder of Reader’s Digest.","previousSummary":"Studio ceramics from the Eidelberg collection."}
{"i":578,"title":"The Genesis Facade Commission: Jeffrey Gibson, The Animal That Therefore I Am","raw":"Acclaimed artist Jeffrey Gibson (born 1972) invites reflection on the interconnected relationships between all living beings and the environment for the 2025 Genesis Facade Commission. Drawing from his distinctive style fusing Indigenous worldviews and imagery with abstraction, text, and color, Gibson has created four-large scale figurative animal sculptures for The Met Fifth Avenue’s exterior: a deer, coyote, squirrel, and hawk. For Gibson, these forms establish an important connection between where he lives and works in the Hudson Valley and Central Park, home to The Met. Additionally, Gibson is interested in rethinking our understanding of the non-human world, hoping to encourage newfound awareness and even empathy towards animal life. An interdisciplinary artist who grew up in the United States, Germany, and Korea, Gibson is a member of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians and is of Cherokee descent. His expansive body of work ranges from hard-edged abstract paintings to performance and filmmaking and also includes significant contributions as a convener and curator. Gibson’s practice consistently reveals new possibilities. Drawing on a broad range of recurring sources, materials, and imagery, he often critiques the reductive ways Indigenous culture has been historically flattened and misappropriated. Gibson’s project for The Met’s Fifth Avenue facade is the sixth in a series of commissions for the historic exterior. Tang and H.M. Agnes Hsu-Tang, the Director’s Fund, and Cynthia Hazen Polsky and Leon B. Polsky. Additional fabrication support to the artist is provided by Hauser & Wirth.","previousSummary":"Gibson's beaded sculptures for the facade."}
{"i":579,"title":"Iba Ndiaye: Between Latitude and Longitude","raw":"Between Latitude and Longitude constitutes the inaugural exhibition in the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing’s in-focus gallery, part of the complete major reenvisioning of The Met collection of African art. In celebration of the initiative, an artistic landmark work by Senegalese Modernist Iba Ndiaye (1928–2008), Tabaski III, a gift to The Met, is being ushered into the collection. Since the 1982 opening of the Rockefeller Wing, a canon of African Modernist painting has taken shape, and Ndiaye emerges consistently as a foundational figure of international importance, yet his contributions remain largely unknown outside Senegal. Born in Saint Louis to a Catholic mother and Muslim father, Ndiaye, upon his completion of a secondary education at the prestigious Lycée Faidherbe, left for France to pursue fine arts studies. On the eve of Senegal’s independence, he was summoned to Dakar by its first president, the poet and statesman Léopold Sédar Senghor, to establish a national school of fine arts. Tabaski III was painted upon his subsequent return to France in 1970, where he remained the rest of his career. Its subject is the Feast of Sacrifice, Eid al-Adha, known as Tabaski in Wolof, the second of the most important celebrations in Islam that honors the willingness of Abraham to sacrifice his son as an act of obedience to God’s command. With this depiction, Ndiaye selected a notable subject in the history of art that he boldly represented as experienced within a West African context. At the same time, he does so in a painterly idiom adopted from his careful study and embrace of European old master painting. A partnership between Met curators specializing in African art and European paintings, this presentation introduces the work in relation to the artist’s diverse source material from across The Met, an institution that was a source of profound inspiration. Among the selection are works by Rembrandt, Goya, Degas, Derain, and Bacon, along with key works of African sculpture,","previousSummary":"Senegalese modernist painter."}
{"i":580,"title":"The Magical City: George Morrison’s New York","raw":"Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, which he collaboratively defined both publicly and behind the scenes. Morrison’s influence as an abstract expressionist painter began in 1943 when he traveled from rural Minnesota to New York City to study at the Art Students League on a scholarship. Immersing himself in the city’s vibrant cultural scenes, he studied painting and drawing, contributed to numerous exhibitions and publications, and openly challenged the mainstream art establishment of his generation. In New York, Morrison formed meaningful connections with artists including Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Lois Dodd, and Louise Nevelson, among others. His deep appreciation for urban life—specifically, industrial landscapes, jazz, and literature—permanently shaped his artistic practice and imagery. This exhibition explores how Morrison’s aesthetic inspiration and future trajectory drew from his love of New York, which he called a “Magical City.” Featuring 25 of his most important paintings and drawings from this early period, the exhibition culminates in his Horizon series. It also features rare archival materials that place Morrison at the heart of the Abstract Expressionist movement in 1940s and 1950s New York.","previousSummary":"Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work."}
{"i":582,"title":"Fanmania","raw":"The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also adopted it as an experimental format for their art. Fanmania investigates why avant-garde artists incorporated fans into their work and sheds light on themes of gender, courtship, consumerism, and appropriation. Artists were attracted to the semicircular form for myriad reasons, including fascination with fans from Asia and Spain, commercial ambition, and their interest in formal and technical innovation. Displaying more than 75 artworks from across The Met collection, this multimedia exhibition features painted and printed fans from Europe and Asia as well as artworks that depict women wielding fans to explore the phenomenon of “fanmania.”","previousSummary":"Folding fans as fashion and display."}
{"i":583,"title":"Chinese Painting and Calligraphy: Selections from the Collection","raw":"The Met acquired its first Chinese painting in 1902. Since then, the Museum has added more than two thousand works of painting and calligraphy, building one of the most comprehensive collections in the world. Spanning fifteen hundred years of cultural production and featuring a variety of genres, techniques, and styles, The Met's collection has become a key resource for the study of Chinese painting and calligraphy. This exhibition presents a rich selection of works from the collection arranged in a largely chronological display. The final gallery tells the story of Wen C. Fong (1930–2018), chairman of the Museum’s Department of Asian Art from 1971 to 2000, and his teacher Li Jian (1881–1956). As a young calligraphy prodigy in Shanghai in the 1940s, Fong studied brush arts with Li. The display centers on a group of fans, painted and written by Li, that were intended to transmit the canonical models of the classical tradition from teacher to student. Brought to the United States in 1949 and treasured by the Fong family since then, these fans are presented publicly for the first time.","previousSummary":"Rotation from the Met's holdings."}
{"i":584,"title":"View Finding: Selections from The Walther Collection","raw":"The world looks different through a camera’s viewfinder—like a picture frame or a windowpane, it redirects the eye. In modern and contemporary photographs from an esteemed private collection, artists use the camera to navigate shifting terrain. Registering and reshaping environments in flux, they look anew at how we traverse them. When Artur Walther began to acquire photography, he aimed to expand the parameters of the field. Assembled over three decades and across five continents, his vast collection brings together a diverse group of makers—some celebrated and others still unknown. View Finding: Selections from The Walther Collection introduces his landmark gift of over 6,500 works and highlights the collection’s pioneering point of view. Presenting international perspectives on hyperlocal subjects, it showcases the camera as a tool for creativity and critique. With inventive eyes, the photographers in View Finding study the sidewalks of Nairobi and storefronts of Fifth Avenue. They search public parks from Tokyo to Tangier. In private bedrooms, parking lots, and other places easy to overlook, they focus in, finding—here and there—unlikely sites of self-reflection and social change.","previousSummary":"Photography, African and diasporic practice."}
{"i":585,"title":"Seeing Silence: The Paintings of Helene Schjerfbeck","raw":"Beloved in Nordic countries for her highly original style, Finnish painter Helene Schjerfbeck (1862–1946) is relatively unknown to the rest of the world. Overcoming immense personal struggles and working in a remote location for decades, she produced a powerful body of work through sheer force of will. This exhibition affirms her rightful place in the story of modern art. Following Schjerfbeck’s journey from art school in Paris to her final days in Sweden, the exhibition illustrates her shift from traditional and realistic subjects to a simplified, spare style. In the early 1900s, using her mother and neighbors as models, she painted abstractly, paring down her subjects in form and color and developing a bold, new language. Seeing Silence: The Paintings of Helene Schjerfbeck is the first exhibition to showcase the work of the artist in a major United States museum. Featuring nearly 60 works—including generous loans from the Finnish National Gallery / Ateneum Art Museum, other Finnish museums, and private collections in Finland and Sweden—Seeing Silence illuminates Schjerfbeck as a valuable voice of modernism. This exhibition is organized by The Metropolitan Museum of Art in collaboration with the Finnish National Gallery / Ateneum Art Museum.","previousSummary":"Finnish painter's pared-back portraits."}
{"i":586,"title":"The Jousting Armor of Philip I of Castile","raw":"Among the various mock combats fought by knights and noblemen in tournaments, the joust was one of the most spectacular. The joust of peace required highly specialized armor that was unsuited to any other use, and usually made by the greatest armorers due to the exceptional metalworking skills required. This special installation features an armor for the joust of peace of Philip I of Castile (1478–1506) on loan from the Imperial Armoury, Kunsthistorisches Museum Vienna. A rare example among surviving armors for its refined decoration, it is also remarkable in that it was intended for a teenager. Its owner Philip I became duke of Burgundy, count of Flanders, and the ruler of additional lands, albeit in name only, upon his birth. He began wearing armor when he was just six years old, and this one was made for training and participating in tournaments around the time that he turned 15, when he was declared ready to rule. Through marriage, Philip became king consort of Castile and the first member of the House of Habsburg to rule over Spanish territories. His jousting armors were key to shaping his public image of a capable leader.","previousSummary":"Rare surviving jousting harness."}
{"i":587,"title":"Spectrum of Desire: Love, Sex, and Gender in the Middle Ages","raw":"Set in the stunning atmosphere of The Met Cloisters, this exhibition explores the often-overlooked themes of desire, sexuality, and gender in the medieval past, a period of time when most artistic production served religious purposes. Desire in the Middle Ages was multifaceted. It could be courtly or carnal, sacred or subversive, and expressed as a kind of longing, suffering, or joy. Medieval artists could be both deeply serious and comical in their evocations of these feelings. Drawing on decades of scholarship, Spectrum of Desire opens up new ways of seeing the past through stirring works of art that inspire us to think more expansively about people who lived in the Middle Ages, their relationships, and the artworks they produced. Featuring more than fifty works—from gold jewelry and ivory sculptures to stained glass, illuminated manuscripts, and woven textiles—this exhibition showcases the richness of visual expression in western Europe from the 13th to the 15th century, drawing primarily from The Met collection. This exploration of the visual language of desire in its many forms invites us to reflect on our own ideas of love, identity, and kinship today. The exhibition is made possible by the Michel David-Weill Fund and Kathryn A. Ploss. The catalogue is made possible by the Michel David-Weill Fund and Nellie and Robert Gipson. Stein and Bart Friedman.","previousSummary":"Medieval desire, sexuality and gender."}
{"i":588,"title":"Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family","raw":"Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), and their mother, Mary Newbold Sargent (1826–1906). As the artistic family traveled seasonally through Europe, Mary encouraged her children’s creative aspirations. The siblings had a close relationship and often sketched and painted side by side. As John Singer Sargent’s bold portraits increasingly garnered critical attention, his younger sister Emily supported his career while building a body of work of her own that remained largely unseen. Drawn entirely from The Met collection, Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family takes a close look at their art and explores how paths diverged for daughter and son, revealing the challenges women artists faced in the late 19th century. Intended as a complement to The Met’s Sargent and Paris, this exhibition celebrates the recent gift—from the artists’ heirs—of 26 Emily Sargent watercolors, which will be making their debut. This generous gift continues a long legacy of family giving that formed the foundation of the Museum’s extensive Sargent holdings. Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund.","previousSummary":"Watercolours by Sargent's sister."}
{"i":589,"title":"Impressions of the Imagination: New Medieval Beasts in Print","raw":"Snarling, prancing, prowling, and peeking out from stone and thread, animals both real and fantastical fill medieval art with energy and imagination. As part of The Met Cloisters’ commitment to serving neighbors in upper Manhattan, fifth-grade students from P.S. 48 P.O. Michael J. Buczek were invited to immerse themselves in this lively world of hybrid creatures and respond with beasts of their own invention. During two gallery visits, students studied the curves of a dragon’s tail, the proud stance of a griffin, and the shimmer of a unicorn’s tail woven into tapestries, taking careful note of how medieval artists used line, pattern, and material. Back in the classroom, students brought their ideas to life through printmaking that required layering textures and shapes to create bold, whimsical creatures, each one stamped with the imagination of its maker. The Met Cloisters gratefully acknowledges P.S. 48 art teacher Félix Portela, Met teaching artist Pamela Lawton, and the entire P.S. 48 community for their support of this program.","previousSummary":"Printed bestiary imagery."}
{"i":590,"title":"The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close","raw":"Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-funded initiative that provides free scientific support to art institutions nationwide. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close presents seven of these impressive drawings for the first time in forty years, spotlighting the multiyear collaboration between The Met and the Municipal Archives as well as the Museum’s ongoing commitment to sharing resources with New York City institutions. Designed by German engineer John A. Roebling (1806–1869), a pioneer in steel-wire rope technology used for suspension bridges, the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 by his son, Washington A. Roebling (1837–1926), with help from skilled assistants. After Washington became ill, his wife, Emily Warren Roebling (1843–1903), took over supervision of the project and played a crucial role in its success. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close offers fresh insights into the physical properties of these monumental drawings, informing future conservation treatments. It also highlights science’s vital role in uncovering new narratives and providing unprecedented access to artists’ creative processes. This special installation is made possible by the Mellon Foundation.","previousSummary":"Bridge construction in drawings and prints."}
{"i":591,"title":"Colorful Korea: The Lea R. Sneider Collection","raw":"Over the course of forty years, Lea R. Sneider (1925–2020) formed a significant collection of Korean art that challenged established norms. While appreciating literati art, she was particularly drawn to lively and colorful forms connected to everyday life, resulting in a diverse collection that illustrates Korea’s vibrant material culture. This exhibition features a substantial gift and loans from the Lea R. Through approximately 100 pieces from the fifth century to the present, including paintings, ceramics, furniture, textiles, and funerary and ritual objects, the exhibition highlights the pervasiveness of auspicious symbolism and the unpretentious dynamism in Korean art. Sneider has said that the works reflect the vitality and warmth of the people who engaged with them, a sentiment that her collection, with its emphasis on cultural and everyday relevance, underscores. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: December 2, 2024–July 20, 2025 Rotation 2: July 26, 2025–February 15, 2026 The exhibition is made possible by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism of the Republic of Korea (MCST).","previousSummary":"Korean textiles and ceramics."}
{"i":592,"title":"Witnessing Humanity: The Art of John Wilson","raw":"For over six decades, the American artist John Wilson (1922–2015) made powerful and poetic works that captured his life as a Black American artist and his ongoing quest for racial, social, and economic justice. Wilson's art reflected on and responded to the turbulent times in which he lived. His subjects included racial violence, labor, the writings of Richard Wright, the Civil Rights Movement, street scenes, and intimate images of family life, with a particular focus on fatherhood. Despite the power of his art and the continuing relevance of the themes he explored, Wilson’s work has not received the recognition it deserves. Working in a figurative style, Wilson sought to portray what he called “a universal humanity.” While still a teenager, he was struck by the absence of positive representations of Black Americans and their experiences in both museums and popular culture. To counter such prejudices and omissions, Wilson put the experiences of Black Americans at the center and created images that portrayed dignity and strength. The exhibition features over 100 artworks made over the course of Wilson’s career, many of which have not been shown before. The exhibition begins with work he made while in art school in Boston, where his subjects included the horrors of Nazi Germany and American racial violence, as well as portraits of his family and neighborhood. It continues through his time in Paris, Mexico City, and New York, capturing the humanity and scope of Wilson’s art. The exhibition concludes with Wilson’s return to Boston and his focus on portraiture. Included are maquettes and works on paper for two of Wilson’s most celebrated works—his sculpture of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at the U.S. Capitol and the monumental sculpture Eternal Presence. Witnessing Humanity will be the largest exhibition of Wilson's work and the artist's first solo museum show in New York. Visitors will see superb examples of Wilson’s paintings, prints, drawings, and sculpture, as well as","previousSummary":"African American figurative work on race and dignity."}
{"i":593,"title":"Man Ray: When Objects Dream","raw":"American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned recognizable subjects into wonderfully mysterious compositions. Introduced in the period between Dada and Surrealism, the rayographs’ transformative, magical qualities led the poet Tristan Tzara to describe them as capturing the moments “when objects dream.” The exhibition will be the first to situate this signature accomplishment in relation to Man Ray’s larger body of work of the 1910s and 1920s. Drawing from the collections of The Met and more than 50 U.S. and international lenders, the exhibition will feature approximately 60 rayographs and 100 paintings, objects, prints, drawings, films, and photographs—including some of the artist’s most iconic works—to highlight the central role of the rayograph in Man Ray’s boundary-breaking practice. “Before my eyes an image began to form, not quite a simple silhouette of the objects as in a straight photograph, but distorted and refracted … In the morning I examined the results, pinning a couple of the Rayographs—as I decided to call them—on the wall. They looked startlingly new and mysterious.” — Man Ray The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation. Goldsmith Foundation, The Daniel and Estrellita Brodsky Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Krantz and Harvey Sawikin, and Schiaparelli.","previousSummary":"Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism."}
{"i":594,"title":"Celebrating the Year of the Snake","raw":"The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. Each is believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that year. January 29, 2025, marks the beginning of the Year of the Snake, a creature characterized as alert, calm, and smart. Celebrating the Year of the Snake presents a remarkable selection of works drawn from the Museum’s collection illustrating the significant role that the snake plays in Chinese culture, including a 3,000-year-old bronze ritual vessel with a spout formed by joined snakes’ heads, a 13th-century pottery figure of a mischievously smiling snake, and an 18th-century exquisitely painted porcelain cup portraying a scene from the “Legend of the White Snake,” a popular folktale of love and romance between humans and fantastic creatures.","previousSummary":"Asian works featuring the snake."}
{"i":595,"title":"Casa Susanna","raw":"Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to create and affirm their femme identities, exchanging photographs at gatherings or sharing them by mail. These snapshots—some candid, others playfully performative—were rediscovered at a Manhattan flea market in 2004 and have come to be known as the Casa Susanna photographs. The exhibition also features issues of Transvestia, an underground magazine that published the photographs along with fiction, poetry, makeup and clothing advice, and autobiographical essays by members of the community. During this period, most cross-dressers lived in isolation and shame. The exhibition presents new research into the double lives cross-dressers led as married men with established careers. The photographs also bring to light the type of woman they aimed to embody—such as the “girl next door,” the respectable housewife, the matron—a middle-class ideal of femininity that was both liberating and limiting. Casa Susanna offers insight into a significant pre-Stonewall cross-dressing scene, inviting visitors to understand this world and its connection to the lives of transgender people today. The exhibition is organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario and Les Rencontres d’Arles in collaboration with The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.","previousSummary":"1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs."}
{"i":596,"title":"Divine Egypt","raw":"In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 gods with many overlapping forms and traits. Subtle visual cues like what a figure wore, how they posed, or the symbols they carried helped identify them and their roles. Divine Egypt brings together almost 250 works of art and objects, many of them on loan from institutions such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Musée du Louvre, Paris, and the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, Copenhagen, to examine the imagery associated with the most important deities in ancient Egypt’s massive body of gods. Depictions of the stately falcon-headed Horus, the lion-headed Sakhmet, and the serene, shrouded Osiris reveal the striking ways the kings and people of ancient Egypt recognized and interacted with their gods. While the king had a daily direct relationship with the gods in the inner sanctuaries of great temples, people without such access found ways to connect with their gods through rituals, offerings, and objects of private devotion. This immersive look at how deities were depicted reveals the many roles they played in people’s lives, providing them with meaning in front of life’s uncertainties and the permanence of death. The exhibition is made possible by The John A. Moran Charitable Trust. Cullman, Alaina and Stirling Larkin, and Norby Anderson. The catalogue is made possible by the Kelekian Fund. Cotti.","previousSummary":"Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities."}
{"i":597,"title":"Christmas Tree and Neapolitan Baroque Crèche","raw":"The Met continues a longstanding holiday tradition with the presentation of its Christmas tree. The magnificently lit, twenty-foot blue spruce looms over a vivid eighteenth-century Neapolitan Nativity scene, surrounded by an abundant array of lifelike figures with silk-robed angels hovering above. The scene describes in detail the Mediterranean harbor town's multicultural population. The installation is set in front of the eighteenth-century Spanish choir screen from the Cathedral of Valladolid in the Museum's Medieval Sculpture Hall. Please note: There are no tree-lighting ceremonies scheduled this year. The exhibit of the crèche is made possible by the Loretta Hines Howard Fund.","previousSummary":"Annual Neapolitan crèche figures."}
{"i":598,"title":"Ganesha: Lord of New Beginnings","raw":"Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome aspect in this guise. The seventh- to twenty-first-century works in this exhibition trace his depiction across the Indian subcontinent, the Himalayas, and Southeast Asia. Featuring 24 works across sculptures, paintings, musical instruments, ritual implements, and photography, the exhibition emphasizes the vitality and exuberance of Ganesha as the bringer of new beginnings. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: November 19, 2022–June 11, 2023 Rotation 2: June 17, 2023–June 11, 2024 Rotation 3: June 13, 2024–January 4, 2026","previousSummary":"Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art."}