=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, and mythology. Musical Bodies is the first major exhibition to explore the relationship between musical instruments and the body by bringing together some 130 instruments, paintings, sculptures, drawings, and more to illuminate how we express who we are, what we value, and what we believe. With works from The Met collection and institutions and collectors around the world, the exhibition explores 4,000 years of art and music history, from ancient Egyptian rattles and musical masterpieces by Titian and Degas to instrument-inspired apparel and one of Prince’s most notable guitars. Musical Bodies will resonate with visitors of all ages, whether you are a musician, a devoted listener, or simply curious about human expression. The exhibition is made possible by Barbara Tober, the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary C. and James W. Fosburgh Publications Fund.
  →  Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection.

RAW: The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other collecting areas. Pairings between fashions and artworks will present a spectrum of connections and experiences: from the formal to the conceptual, the aesthetic to the political, the individual to the universal, the illustrative to the symbolic, and the playful to the profound. These pairings are organized into a series of thematic body types that reflect their pervasiveness and endurance through time and cultures. Costume Art is the inaugural exhibition in the new, nearly 12,000-square-foot galleries adjacent to the Great Hall. This space will display The Costume Institute’s annual spring show and, at times, shows from the Museum’s other curatorial departments, including those that explore the intersection of fashion and art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here
  →  Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries.

RAW: In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the great sculptors of the 20th century in dialogue with the ancient civilization that strongly influenced his art and his practice. Throughout his career, Giacometti showed a particular fascination for the art of ancient Egypt. The Egyptian statues he saw in Italy as a young artist made a lasting impression on his visual repertoire, and after he moved to Paris, he regularly visited the Egyptian galleries of the Louvre. His formal dialogue with Egypt can be seen in sketches of walking figures in profile, which were later realized in such works as Walking Woman (I) (1932). At The Met, this elegant figure will be installed in the entrance hall of the Temple of Dendur. The Temple of Dendur was completed in 10 BCE as a commission by Caesar Augustus shortly after he became emperor of Rome. Gifted from Egypt to the United States in 1965, it has been one of the most beloved works of art at The Met since it opened to the public in 1978. In ancient Egypt, the terrace before the temple functioned as an open meeting place between the deity and larger crowds. At The Met, Giacometti's figures will stand alone or in groups on the temple platform—a presentation that echoes the artist's own compositions of figures as well as the life around the temple. The exhibition is made possible by the Kate W. Cassidy Foundation.
  →  Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple.

RAW: The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated travel, rapid technological change, and shifting geopolitics hastened artistic exchange between distant regions and different cultures. Beginning with Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt in 1798 and culminating in the paintings of Ottoman renaissance man Osman Hamdi Bey, this exhibition tells the story of how Islamic works of art made their way to European dealers, collectors, international expositions, and museums, introducing a new visual language to artists, architects, and designers. Deep admiration for the sophisticated techniques and visual language of Islamic art led Owen Jones and other influential figures to transform architecture and design in Europe and America. Artists such as Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Eugène Delacroix, and Jean-Léon Gérôme visited lands and people across the Mediterranean or imagined them from afar. They sometimes depicted what they saw and at other times conjured distant places through memory and imagination, often using Islamic objects to stage their paintings. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy is the first exhibition at The Met to explore Orientalism as its central focus, presenting not only easel paintings but also drawings, photographs, illustrated books, architecture, arms and armor, textiles, garments, glassware, ceramics, and metalwork. Highlighting The Met collection, it features approximately 180 objects from 12 Met departments along with rarely seen loans from the U.S. and abroad. Displayed across four galleries that straddle the departments of European Paintings and Islamic Art, the presentation invites visitors to approach the exhibit
  →  Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa.

RAW: Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Renaissance as “almost eternal,” today Della Robbia sculptures are often as vibrantly luminous as when they emerged from the kiln five hundred years ago. The Met has the largest, most significant collection of Della Robbia glazed terracottas in America. Most have remained in storage for decades. For the first time, Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met features in a single gallery 12 of the Museum’s masterworks by three generations of the Della Robbia family. Rescued from storage, revived through conservation, and reattributed through fresh research, these sculptures are shown with two important loans from a private collector. Another two works are exciting sculptures by Giovanni della Robbia from the Dick Wolf Collection that complement existing works in the Museum’s collection—one is a promised gift and the other, the Mystic Mandorla lunette, recently was gifted to the Museum. Together, the exhibited sculptures span monumental reliefs composed of many interlocking pieces to small statuettes, signaling the scope of the Della Robbias’ art. Collaboration within the Della Robbia workshop fostered innovation. Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met itself results from a collaborative exchange among curators, conservators, and digital specialists. Highlights include the exhibition’s centerpiece featuring 33 newly conserved interlocking pieces of a 10-foot-tall altarpiece that has been off view for 70 years. These are shown alongside a large, animated virtual reconstruction that uses 3D-scanning technology to suggest how the entire altar originally was assembled. Rediscovering Della
  →  Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop.

RAW: This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-term presidency. Rarely seen prints reveal the transatlantic circulation of news about the struggle for independence during a fractious political period. This window into the era’s print culture highlights the global dimensions of the rebellion, the contested ideas about liberty that shaped it, and its consequential outcomes. Also on view are American and European works of art that depict a range of significant individuals. These include the Wampanoag chief Metacomet, whose battles with early colonists laid the groundwork for revolution; the African American poet Phillis Wheatley, who raised her voice against an expansive tyranny in her call for emancipation; patriots and presidents such as Paul Revere and George Washington; the Mohawk leader Thayendanegea, who allied with the British in an effort to retain Indigenous sovereignty; and iconic contributors to the Declaration of Independence John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Together, these artworks acknowledge multiple complex and intertwined histories that continue to resonate in the United States and beyond, some two and half centuries later. This special installation is made possible by Kimba Wood and Frank Richardson.
  →  Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval.

RAW: This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outside of natural ecosystems but are profoundly interdependent with the rest of the natural world. Dating from around 1525 to 1775, these paintings trace a shift in European representations of nature from expressions of embeddedness toward assertions of dominance, showing how our conceptions of nature are themselves not “natural” but instead are culturally constructed. The artists’ depictions shape viewers’ experiences of the environments they portray. Overlapping themes include ancient myths that personify natural forces; the relationship between art and science through direct observation of nature; and idealizations of agricultural labor that upheld class, gender, and colonial power structures. As physical objects, paintings alter natural resources like flax, wood, and rare minerals; in turn, these materials continue to have lives of their own. This special installation is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation.
  →  Painting through landscape, environment and material relations.

RAW: Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotation, shows treasured Korean traditions. By presenting them in ways that give us a fuller picture into each object’s unique form, Flip Sides provides insight into the construction and function of works in metal, wood, ceramic, textiles, and lacquer. A Buddhist sculpture that held offerings inside, a porcelain jar of striking openwork that conceals an inner chamber, a bronze mirror with a delicately incised image, and a king’s lacquer letter box with linings featuring impressive calligraphy are among the featured objects in Flip Sides. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: March 16–October 18, 2026 Rotation 2: October 31, 2026–May 31, 2027 The exhibition is made possible by The Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art.
  →  Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects.

RAW: From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s extensive and rich history of ceramic art through approximately 350 extraordinary works presented in themes that offer fresh perspectives on the diverse forms and functions, from everyday tableware to vessels created for tea masters and elite households to modern sculptural compositions. Japan’s earliest pottery dates back more than 12,000 years, when makers shaped and fired clay vessels for cooking and storage—objects that bear the traces of these early potters’ hands. Expertise transmitted from China and Korea in medieval times facilitated the development of new Japanese techniques and wares. Over time, the reverence for prized ceramics led to finding beauty even through damage. Japanese artisans developed kintsugi, the art of repairing broken ceramics with gold lacquer, restoring the damaged object’s function while making it even more precious and valuable. Japanese cuisine and dining aesthetics inspired vessels designed to harmonize with the color and texture of food. Many porcelains from the Edo period (1615–1868) are embellished with motifs drawn from the natural world or symbols of happiness, longevity, and good fortune. Featuring refined ceramics and other artworks from the Museum’s Harry G. C. Packard Collection, this exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of this landmark acquisition that established the foundation of The Met’s Japanese art holdings. By placing ceramics in dialogue with related art forms—including lacquers, textiles, paintings, and woodblock prints—the display inspires curiosity about the multiverse of Japanese ceramics and its broader cultural
  →  Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form.

RAW: Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302). The intimate and enchanting gallery with exposed brick walls and arched portals was unveiled in the year 2000 after a renovation that reclaimed the space beneath the Museum’s Grand Staircase. In this transhistorical presentation, the Byzantine Crypt’s religious and secular jewelry, textiles, ivory objects, vessels, and architectural sculpture from Early Christian and Coptic monastic sites are complemented and enriched by contemporary sculptures, works on paper, and installations from the 1960s to present day that similarly serve as memorials, reliquaries, and tokens to ward off evil. As part of the exhibition, Adrian Piper’s editioned work Everything #4 invites viewers to contemplate its otherworldly statement and their reflection in a variety of contexts. It will be installed in the heart of the Byzantine Crypt and five other spaces across The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, listed below. The exhibition is made possible by The Jaharis Family Foundation.
  →  Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that animal’s year. February 17, 2026, marks the beginning of the Year of the Horse, a creature symbolizing power, strength, and vitality. Celebrating the Year of the Horse brings together works from The Met collection to explore the horse’s enduring nature and vital place in Chinese civilization. Domesticated in prehistoric times, this animal has shaped nearly every facet of life—from agriculture and transportation to trade, warfare, sport, and entertainment. In ancient China, horse-drawn chariots transported military commanders and the social elite, while in the Tang dynasty (618–907), tall and robust horses came to embody the strength of the state and cosmopolitan spirit of the empire. In Chinese popular culture, horses are among the most celebrated animals, and in the spiritual realm they serve as noble mounts for divine guardians believed to bring joy, protection, and prosperity to the household. This presentation, featuring a range of expressive works in ceramics, glass, jade, and metal, and woodblock prints, illuminates these roles while celebrating the horse’s power, vitality, and spirit.
  →  Asian works for the lunar new year.

RAW: In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter in the history of art. The first ever exhibition about the Savonnerie in the United States, A King’s Carpet sheds new light on The Met’s three carpets made as part of this ambitious scheme. Held in the iconic Wrightsman Galleries, it will explore the tumultuous history of these Baroque masterpieces from their conception and the harsh realities of their production to their dispersal after the French Revolution. A project of unheard-of scale, the weaving of the 92 carpets necessitated the establishment of massive workshops and an expendable workforce of orphans and adolescents with sharp eyesight and nimble fingers. Woven over 20 years, the carpets were never rolled out in the space for which they were intended, Louis XIV having turned his attention away from the Louvre to Versailles. During the Revolution, many were stripped of their royal emblems or sold, some eventually finding new homes with prominent American collectors such as J. P. Morgan and Alva Vanderbilt. This exhibition will present four complete carpets along with a selection of fragments, attesting to the scheme’s segmentation and dispersal. In addition, visitors will be able to observe textile conservators at work in an in-gallery temporary conservation studio as they repair and strengthen one of these monumental textiles.
  →  Savonnerie carpets and French court display.

RAW: Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography promised to capture the sky with unprecedented immediacy and detail, yet early technical limitations fell short of that promise. Photographers responded by painting in skies or manually combining negatives, until chemical and optical advances at the start of the 20th century made possible cloudscape photographs that rivaled paintings. Chasing Clouds follows the remarkable story of how the sky was represented during this period, tracing the depiction of clouds in works that balanced changing artistic conventions with scientific discoveries and new technologies. Opening with oil sketches from the start of the 19th century, and including paintings, drawings, and photographs from the following decades, it comes full circle in the 1920s with American photographer Alfred Stieglitz’s Equivalents, a series of cloud studies that reconciles poetic feeling and naturalistic depiction. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography.

RAW: Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in the United States—is activated by Hartt’s architectural intervention, bringing past and present into conversation. For this site-specific commission—consisting of two Direct View LED screens and echoing imagery from the panorama itself—Hartt draws on direct documentation of Versailles, the cinematic language of French New Wave Cinema, and photographs of the palace grounds by Eugene Atget to reshape the experience of The Met’s circular gallery space housing the work. Filmed at locations from Versailles to the Boulevard Périphérique and throughout the center of Paris, Peripheries explores the constant reinvention of the French capital. Hartt’s installation reconfigures movement and angles of vision, augmented through an original score by composer and musician Jeff Parker. Visitors are visually lured away from established centers within the city toward the margins—or the “peripheries”—where alternative perspectives and histories are often relegated. By engaging directly with Vanderlyn's panorama, Hartt has created a space to reconsider not only the historical painting itself but also examine ideas of representation and cultural memory within a living environment. The exhibition is made possible by Jan and Warren Adelson in honor of Eugénie Prendergast, and The Modern Circle.
  →  Architecture, migration and the edges of cities.

RAW: The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the United States. While serving in the U.S. Army as one of the Ritchie Boys, a specialized unit of German-speaking soldiers, Lewen arrived at the Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation in 1945. The Parade is rooted in the artist’s experience of these events as well as his coming of age during the tumultuous years when, as he reflected later, the parades after World War I gave way to the death marches of World War II. Experienced together as a sequence, the drawings carry viewers from military pageantry to conflict, devastation, and mourning through the cumulative force of their imagery. The power of The Parade lies not only in its historical origins but in its ability to speak across generations with urgency, asking viewers to confront the persistent cycles of violence that continue to shape our world. The exhibition's title, There Are No Words, is inspired by Lewen's own description of the format of The Parade as a wordless novel in which he explained: "there are no words . . . just the picture itself is the narrative." At the same time, the title reflects his conviction that the horrors of war ultimately defy language and description.
  →  Wordless picture sequence on war.

RAW: Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as central to the innovations of art from the mid-20th century onwards. This exhibition continues and amplifies this reevaluation, on their own terms and in dynamic relation to each other. Drawing its subtitle, Past Continuous, from a 1976 painting by Krasner, the exhibition traces parallel lives and practices—forged first by lived experience, then shadowed by memory. Krasner, born in Brooklyn to Jewish immigrant parents from what is now Ukraine, and Pollock, raised in Los Angeles and the American West, brought specific geographies and inheritances into a shared artistic context. Their early paths traced distinct strands of American modernism that would ultimately converge in the rupture known as Abstract Expressionism, a movement that valued the translation of inner feelings into dramatic visual action. In the wake of World War II, artists asked why art mattered and what it could be. For Pollock, his breakthrough was the “drip” technique, a radical mode of painting that flourished in a condensed but prolific period. Krasner’s varied practice was typified by ceaseless explorations of abstraction, often cued by her abiding interest in the possibilities of nature and color. Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous is the first major New York presentation devoted to either artist in more than 20 years. Featuring over 120 works, it is the first exhibition to look at the full arc of their careers together. The exhibition is made possible by Kenneth C. Griffin and Griffin Catalyst, Marina Kellen French, and the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation.
  →  Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence.

RAW: Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolve into atmospheric blur. What Bassman did not show she evoked in her expressive prints—products of darkroom distortion, achieved with tissues, brushes, and bleach. In an earlier era, such an approach might have precluded commercial success. Bassman’s timing, though, could not have been better; in 1941, at age 24, she took a design job at Harper’s Bazaar, where a group of artists and editors were then reimagining how the magazine should look. With them, she helped introduce an avant-garde sensibility to the American newsstand, advancing new possibilities for photography in print. In works from a remarkable gift to The Met, Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond highlights the influence and audacity of her magazine career. The exhibition flips between the New School in Manhattan and the “New Look” in Paris, charting Bassman’s course from design apprentice to art director and accomplished photographer. Its rare vintage prints, collages, and maquettes lay out an unlikely history of modernism, refashioned for the pages of the popular press. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar.

RAW: Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years, he achieved such profound success as a painter, designer, and architect that he was regarded as the pinnacle of artistic perfection for centuries after his death. Raphael: Sublime Poetry is the first comprehensive exhibition on Raphael in the United States, bringing together more than 170 of the artist’s greatest masterpieces and rarely seen treasures to illuminate the brilliance of Raphael’s extraordinary creativity. The son of a painter and poet, Raphael engaged with the foremost writers and thinkers of his age in Rome, displaying a poetic sensibility that captivated his peers and generations that followed. Follow the full breadth of his life and career, from his origins in Urbino to his rise in Florence, where he began to emerge as a peer of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, to his final, prolific decade at the papal court in Rome. To underscore the range of his genius, this presentation brings together important drawings, paintings, and tapestries from public and private collections across Europe and the United States, many of which have never been shown together. With particular attention to Raphael’s portrayal of women—from his use of nude female models for the first time in Western art to his tender depictions of the Madonna and Child—and recent scientific discoveries made using state-of-the-art technology, this exhibition offers a rare opportunity to experience the genius of an artist who helped shape the course of art history. Wolfe, Gilbert and Ildiko Butler, Debra and Leon Black, Mark Gorenberg and Cathrin Stickney, the Robert Lehman Foundation, Dinah Seiver
  →  First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael.

RAW: Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, which he collaboratively defined both publicly and behind the scenes. Morrison’s influence as an abstract expressionist painter began in 1943 when he traveled from rural Minnesota to New York City to study at the Art Students League on a scholarship. Immersing himself in the city’s vibrant cultural scenes, he studied painting and drawing, contributed to numerous exhibitions and publications, and openly challenged the mainstream art establishment of his generation. In New York, Morrison formed meaningful connections with artists including Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Lois Dodd, and Louise Nevelson, among others. His deep appreciation for urban life—specifically, industrial landscapes, jazz, and literature—permanently shaped his artistic practice and imagery. This exhibition explores how Morrison’s aesthetic inspiration and future trajectory drew from his love of New York, which he called a “Magical City.” Featuring 25 of his most important paintings and drawings from this early period, the exhibition culminates in his Horizon series. It also features rare archival materials that place Morrison at the heart of the Abstract Expressionist movement in 1940s and 1950s New York.
  →  Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work.

RAW: The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also adopted it as an experimental format for their art. Fanmania investigates why avant-garde artists incorporated fans into their work and sheds light on themes of gender, courtship, consumerism, and appropriation. Artists were attracted to the semicircular form for myriad reasons, including fascination with fans from Asia and Spain, commercial ambition, and their interest in formal and technical innovation. Displaying more than 75 artworks from across The Met collection, this multimedia exhibition features painted and printed fans from Europe and Asia as well as artworks that depict women wielding fans to explore the phenomenon of “fanmania.”
  →  Folding fans as fashion and display.

RAW: Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), and their mother, Mary Newbold Sargent (1826–1906). As the artistic family traveled seasonally through Europe, Mary encouraged her children’s creative aspirations. The siblings had a close relationship and often sketched and painted side by side. As John Singer Sargent’s bold portraits increasingly garnered critical attention, his younger sister Emily supported his career while building a body of work of her own that remained largely unseen. Drawn entirely from The Met collection, Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family takes a close look at their art and explores how paths diverged for daughter and son, revealing the challenges women artists faced in the late 19th century. Intended as a complement to The Met’s Sargent and Paris, this exhibition celebrates the recent gift—from the artists’ heirs—of 26 Emily Sargent watercolors, which will be making their debut. This generous gift continues a long legacy of family giving that formed the foundation of the Museum’s extensive Sargent holdings. Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund.
  →  Watercolours by Sargent's sister.

RAW: Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-funded initiative that provides free scientific support to art institutions nationwide. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close presents seven of these impressive drawings for the first time in forty years, spotlighting the multiyear collaboration between The Met and the Municipal Archives as well as the Museum’s ongoing commitment to sharing resources with New York City institutions. Designed by German engineer John A. Roebling (1806–1869), a pioneer in steel-wire rope technology used for suspension bridges, the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 by his son, Washington A. Roebling (1837–1926), with help from skilled assistants. After Washington became ill, his wife, Emily Warren Roebling (1843–1903), took over supervision of the project and played a crucial role in its success. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close offers fresh insights into the physical properties of these monumental drawings, informing future conservation treatments. It also highlights science’s vital role in uncovering new narratives and providing unprecedented access to artists’ creative processes. This special installation is made possible by the Mellon Foundation.
  →  Bridge construction in drawings and prints.

RAW: American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned recognizable subjects into wonderfully mysterious compositions. Introduced in the period between Dada and Surrealism, the rayographs’ transformative, magical qualities led the poet Tristan Tzara to describe them as capturing the moments “when objects dream.” The exhibition will be the first to situate this signature accomplishment in relation to Man Ray’s larger body of work of the 1910s and 1920s. Drawing from the collections of The Met and more than 50 U.S. and international lenders, the exhibition will feature approximately 60 rayographs and 100 paintings, objects, prints, drawings, films, and photographs—including some of the artist’s most iconic works—to highlight the central role of the rayograph in Man Ray’s boundary-breaking practice. “Before my eyes an image began to form, not quite a simple silhouette of the objects as in a straight photograph, but distorted and refracted … In the morning I examined the results, pinning a couple of the Rayographs—as I decided to call them—on the wall. They looked startlingly new and mysterious.” — Man Ray The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation. Goldsmith Foundation, The Daniel and Estrellita Brodsky Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Krantz and Harvey Sawikin, and Schiaparelli.
  →  Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. Each is believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that year. January 29, 2025, marks the beginning of the Year of the Snake, a creature characterized as alert, calm, and smart. Celebrating the Year of the Snake presents a remarkable selection of works drawn from the Museum’s collection illustrating the significant role that the snake plays in Chinese culture, including a 3,000-year-old bronze ritual vessel with a spout formed by joined snakes’ heads, a 13th-century pottery figure of a mischievously smiling snake, and an 18th-century exquisitely painted porcelain cup portraying a scene from the “Legend of the White Snake,” a popular folktale of love and romance between humans and fantastic creatures.
  →  Asian works featuring the snake.

RAW: Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to create and affirm their femme identities, exchanging photographs at gatherings or sharing them by mail. These snapshots—some candid, others playfully performative—were rediscovered at a Manhattan flea market in 2004 and have come to be known as the Casa Susanna photographs. The exhibition also features issues of Transvestia, an underground magazine that published the photographs along with fiction, poetry, makeup and clothing advice, and autobiographical essays by members of the community. During this period, most cross-dressers lived in isolation and shame. The exhibition presents new research into the double lives cross-dressers led as married men with established careers. The photographs also bring to light the type of woman they aimed to embody—such as the “girl next door,” the respectable housewife, the matron—a middle-class ideal of femininity that was both liberating and limiting. Casa Susanna offers insight into a significant pre-Stonewall cross-dressing scene, inviting visitors to understand this world and its connection to the lives of transgender people today. The exhibition is organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario and Les Rencontres d’Arles in collaboration with The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs.

RAW: In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 gods with many overlapping forms and traits. Subtle visual cues like what a figure wore, how they posed, or the symbols they carried helped identify them and their roles. Divine Egypt brings together almost 250 works of art and objects, many of them on loan from institutions such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Musée du Louvre, Paris, and the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, Copenhagen, to examine the imagery associated with the most important deities in ancient Egypt’s massive body of gods. Depictions of the stately falcon-headed Horus, the lion-headed Sakhmet, and the serene, shrouded Osiris reveal the striking ways the kings and people of ancient Egypt recognized and interacted with their gods. While the king had a daily direct relationship with the gods in the inner sanctuaries of great temples, people without such access found ways to connect with their gods through rituals, offerings, and objects of private devotion. This immersive look at how deities were depicted reveals the many roles they played in people’s lives, providing them with meaning in front of life’s uncertainties and the permanence of death. The exhibition is made possible by The John A. Moran Charitable Trust. Cullman, Alaina and Stirling Larkin, and Norby Anderson. The catalogue is made possible by the Kelekian Fund. Cotti.
  →  Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities.

RAW: Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome aspect in this guise. The seventh- to twenty-first-century works in this exhibition trace his depiction across the Indian subcontinent, the Himalayas, and Southeast Asia. Featuring 24 works across sculptures, paintings, musical instruments, ritual implements, and photography, the exhibition emphasizes the vitality and exuberance of Ganesha as the bringer of new beginnings. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: November 19, 2022–June 11, 2023 Rotation 2: June 17, 2023–June 11, 2024 Rotation 3: June 13, 2024–January 4, 2026
  →  Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art.

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":529,"title":"Screens: A Panafrica Film Series","raw":"For modern and contemporary artists working between Africa and the diaspora, film and photography have been tremendously important forms of creative expression. The five moving-image makers featured in Screens share the planetary hopes of Pan-Africanism, a set of bold visions first developed before 1900 that have galvanized global struggles for freedom and solidarity ever since. The films underscore the great attention paid by African and African diasporic contemporary artists to legacies of the 1950s and ’60s. In those decades, people of African descent worldwide achieved unprecedented gains in national sovereignty, cultural expression, and political recognition. That heyday of decolonization and civil rights sharpened Pan-African imaginations: fostering visions of contemporary self-affirmation, on the one hand, and on the other, a global connectedness for Black people. Studio portraiture and photojournalism both assumed great prominence in these decades, whether by offering empowering representations of ordinary subjects or shedding light on struggles for justice and human rights. In 1969, meanwhile, filmmaker Sarah Maldoror (1929–2020) produced her first short film, Monangambééé, which captured the essence of struggles for equality in the nation of Angola."}
{"i":530,"title":"Germane Barnes: Columnar Disorder","raw":"Chicago-born architect Germane Barnes explores the connections between identity and the built environment—using research, design, and activism to mine the social and political agency of architecture and uncover the spatial histories and futures of Black self-determination. For his first solo museum exhibition, Barnes recasts the canonical foundations of Western architecture through the lens of the African diaspora. Critically reflecting on the enduring legacy of the Classical orders—the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian—whose distinctive columns continue to proliferate in our built environment today, Barnes upends these long-standing and ubiquitous conventions by reimagining architectural orders that are instead rooted in the Black experience, history, and values. His project centers on the design of three new columns, which the exhibition presents through drawings, collages, and commissioned sculptural works. The Identity Column celebrates the Black body and beauty, the Labor Column considers how slavery fueled American economic growth, and the Migration Column—a meditation on the intercontinental journeys of enslaved Africans— recognizes water as a site of Black memory, loss, and selfhood. Attentive to how Eurocentric histories of classical architecture have neglected the migration of North African building traditions across the Mediterranean during antiquity, Barnes’s project seeks to recuperate this legacy through an architectural counter-narrative. By demanding a reorientation of architectural principles that acknowledges and reveres the historical role of the African diaspora, he also offers a framework for envisioning Africa and its descendants as the future of architecture."}
{"i":531,"title":"Mascon: A Massive Concentration of Black Interscalar Energy","raw":"If Pan-Africanism opens the political horizon of Africa’s modernity, then its borderless imagination is best envisioned in cinema’s Africanas. In a new work commissioned for the major exhibitions on Pan-Africanism at the Art Institute, the British duo Kodwo Eshun and Anjalika Sagar of the Otolith Group have conceived a mural that studies the films directed by Senegalese filmmakers Ousmane Sembène and Djibril Diop Mambéty between 1963 and 2003. Picture a mural that montages the spaces, bodies, faces, forms, gestures, expressions, geometries, and geographies of the cinematic Sahel imagined and invented by Mambéty and Sembène. Mascon: A Massive Concentration of Black Interscalar Energy is curated by Antawan I. Byrd, associate curator of Photography and Media, Art Institute of Chicago, and assistant professor of Art History, Northwestern University; Adom Getachew, Professor of Political Science and Race, Diaspora and Indigeneity, University of Chicago; and Matthew S. Witkovsky, vice president for strategic art initiatives and Sandor Chair of Photography and Media, Art Institute of Chicago."}
{"i":532,"title":"Nancy Holt: Seeing in the Round","raw":"More than a sculpture to look at, it is a sculpture to look through. In the early 1970s, Nancy Holt (American, 1938–2014) created her first sculpture, a viewing device that she called a Locator. Made from two pieces of welded steel pipe, with a viewing aperture set at the height of her own eyes, the Locator became a powerful means for Holt to ground her viewer in the conscious process of perception. The first Locators were installed in Holt’s New York studio in 1971. From here she could train a viewer’s eye on overlooked aspects of the urban landscape, focusing attention on found elements, such as ventilators on nearby rooftops or windows on neighboring buildings. She then created site-responsive installations, using the Locator as an apparatus to frame surprising passages in the built environment, which she selected and marked with paint. In this installation, conceived in collaboration with the Holt/Smithson Foundation, two historical works—Dual Locators (1972) and Locator (PS1) (1980)—are presented for the first time out-of-doors on a sculpture terrace, where the interior and exterior architecture of the museum are in constant dialogue with each other and the surrounding city. Drawing awareness to the act of looking, these devices ask us to attend to our individual experience of vision, while challenging the presumption that how we see is in any way self-evident. Nancy Holt: Seeing in the Round is curated by Caitlin Haskell, Gary C. and Frances Comer Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art, and Makayla May, curatorial associate, Modern and Contemporary Art."}
{"i":533,"title":"Paula Modersohn-Becker: I Am Me","raw":"During her short life, Paula Modersohn-Becker (1876–1907) radically charted her own path, exploring the singular aspects of the feminine experience in a bold style that foreshadowed Expressionism. Her most striking works—among the more than 700 paintings, roughly 1,400 drawings, and eleven prints made across only 10 years—are frank portrayals of childhood and images of the lived bodily experience of motherhood, pregnancy, and old age. Modersohn-Becker is especially acclaimed for her many self-portraits, including the first nude self-portraits known to have been made by a woman. Beyond subject matter, her innovative style, which emphasized expression over representation, placed her at the forefront of experimental art in Europe at the turn of the century. Despite her importance to art history and her posthumous place as a feminist icon, Modersohn-Becker has never been the subject of a museum retrospective in the United States. This exhibition marks her first full-scale museum presentation in this country. Showing the full range of her achievement over her career, tragically cut short by a postpartum embolism, the display includes more than 50 paintings, 15 large-scale drawings, and five etchings."}
{"i":534,"title":"Transitory Beauty: Japanese Fan Prints","raw":"The most ephemeral of all Japanese prints, fans depicting popular Kabuki actors, beauties, and landscapes were common during the Edo period (1615–1868). They came in two shapes: the folding fan (ōgi) and the round fan (uchiwa). Specialized shops produced bases made of paper mounted on bamboo ribs, and then printed images—often in colorful designs—were pasted on them. Utagawa Hiroshige, whose work appears on many of the fans shown here, designed more images for this purpose than any other artist. His prolific creativity is reflected in the variety of scenes attributed to him. These fans were often heavily handled or even worn out by their owners as part of their function. Many of the fan prints in the Art Institute’s collection survive because they were not mounted on bamboo sticks and thus were never used. Japanese print designs also commonly featured depictions of people with fans as well as fan shapes incorporated into images, so examples of both appear in this display alongside fan prints meant for conventional use. Transitory Beauty: Japanese Fan Prints is curated by Janice Katz, Roger L. Weston Associate Curator of Japanese Art, the Art Institute of Chicago."}
{"i":535,"title":"French Neoclassical Paintings from The Horvitz Collection","raw":"This exhibition showcases 25 paintings from the preeminent private collection of French 18th-century art in the United States: The Horvitz Collection. The selection of works focuses on Neoclassicism, an artistic style that emerged in the later 1700s and flourished through the 1820s, a period of tremendous political and social upheaval in France. This time was also the heyday of “history painting,” a genre of painting characterized by large-scale compositions portraying scenes from history, mythology, and religion. Neoclassical painters looked to the art, architecture, and literature of ancient Greece and Rome for inspiration, often as a lens through which to depict and comment upon contemporary events, and several works included in the exhibition were displayed to a broad public at the annual Paris Salons. While these works were created more than 200 years ago and often depict ancient or mythological events, they also reference social and political challenges that remain relevant today, from the overthrow of an absolutist government during the French Revolution—which saw the groundwork laid for modern democracies—through to Napoleon’s Empire and the eventual restoration of Bourbon monarchy. This period also coincided with the rise of Enlightenment ideals, the democratization of knowledge, the spread of printed materials, and the origins of industrialization and increased urbanization. The exhibition complements a major survey of drawings from the same period, Revolution to Restoration: French Drawings from The Horvitz Collection."}
{"i":536,"title":"One Hundred Famous Views of Edo","raw":"Utagawa Hiroshige (1797–1858) stands as one of the most celebrated designers of ukiyo-e prints. Ukiyo-e, meaning “pictures of the floating world,” was a genre of woodblock print popular from the 17th through 19th century that depicted scenes of everyday life across Japan. Hiroshige’s designs are among the most widely circulated of any premodern print artist, and because of his prints’ popularity, editions ran into the thousands. His most well-known series, One Hundred Famous Views of Edo, was completed just before his death. Hiroshige had lived his entire life in Edo (present-day Tokyo), and the series offers a great variety of scenes from many locations in and around his home city. Mount Fuji features prominently, as do the waterways and canals that cut through Edo at the time. The series’ extreme commercial success resulted in Hiroshige creating more than the 100 views of its title over a period of two-plus years. Both during and after his lifetime, many editions of the series were produced as well, with clear differences apparent among them. For example, the earliest deluxe edition usually has multicolored title cartouches, many of which are on view in this exhibition."}
{"i":537,"title":"Jane Alexander: Infantry with beast","raw":"Seen around the world, from New York and Paris to Cape Town, Jane Alexander’s Infantry with beast makes an eight-week appearance at the Art Institute of Chicago this fall and winter. Infantry with beast is a composite installation, initially shown as two separate works. Infantry (2008-10) consists of 27 dog-headed human-like figures, diminutively sized yet fearsome, that form a mottled grey phalanx marching with placid menace along a parade carpet of military red. (Infantry was first shown, without the carpet, inside a disused military site in South Africa.) The formation advances toward beast (2003), an even more diminutive creature, as its lower-case initial letter suggests. While beast crouches expectantly, all heads in Infantry gaze blankly upward and to the right, as if the marchers are awaiting orders from an unseen commander who—given the direction of their gazes—might be imagined standing in the very place occupied by viewers of this work. Jane Alexander came to prominence in 1991 with Butcher Boys, an iconic response to apartheid in South Africa. In a sweeping essay on Alexander’s work, written in 2013 just at the time that Infantry with beast was first exhibited in its present arrangement, art historian and writer Kobena Mercer used the perceptive term “humanimals” to underscore the uniquely unsettling qualities of Alexander’s creations, which act simultaneously to captivate and confound: “the feelings aroused by the humanimal are always mixed feelings… . To be disturbed by what we perceive ‘out there’ … is one thing: to be simultaneously affected ‘in here’ by a creeping sense of doubt about one’s own state of mind is quite another.” Infantry with beast will be the final art installation shown in this space long known as Regenstein Hall and dedicated to temporary exhibitions. Following the close of the installation, we will begin transforming the space into the new Grainger Center for Conservation and Science. Regenstein Hall will move to the first floor o"}
{"i":538,"title":"Bruce Goff: Material Worlds","raw":"“I’ve been controversial ever since I started. I can’t help it. I’m neither ashamed nor proud of it. That’s just what happened.” This major retrospective celebrates the unbounded creative practice of American architect Bruce Goff (1904–1982). Best known for his groundbreaking, idiosyncratic single-family homes in suburban and rural areas across the United States, Goff charted an alternative narrative for a modern architecture imbued with individuality, materiality, and fantastical invention. Dubbed the “Michelangelo of kitsch” by architecture critic Charles Jencks, Goff rejected the minimalist aesthetics and the metropolitan worldview of his modernist contemporaries. Instead, his work was inspired by everyday consumer goods and building practices from small towns and cities in the Midwest and the Great Plains where he grew up, trained, taught, and based his practice."}
{"i":539,"title":"Jeremy Frey: Woven","raw":"Delicate, intricate, and sinuous—the vessels that Jeremy Frey weaves from the heavy lumber of ash trees are astonishing to behold. Born in 1978 and raised in the Passamaquoddy Indian Township Reservation in Maine, Frey descends from a long line of esteemed basket weavers and draws on his heritage for the vocabulary of his works. At the same time, he radically innovates within these long-standing forms and techniques to masterfully sculpt objects with unprecedented complexity and elegance. Jeremy Frey: Woven—a mid-career retrospective of the artist’s work—includes more than 50 baskets Frey has crafted over the last two decades. These pieces chart his development as an artist dedicated to expanding and elaborating the possibilities of traditional Passamaquoddy basket weaving. An artist’s artist, Frey continually, meticulously, and systematically redefines his practice to imaginative and unexpected ends. His works explore the potential of shapes, textures, and layered colors within the parameters of weaving. Many of the pieces additionally feature images intricately embroidered with dyed porcupine quills. Frey has recently experimented with using his baskets as a matrix for printmaking, as well as creating his first time-based-media work—both of which are included in this presentation. The first museum exhibition of the artist’s work, Jeremy Frey: Woven showcases both the time-honored art form of Passamaquoddy basketmaking and the way Frey has transformed it into something uniquely—exquisitely—his own."}
{"i":540,"title":"Revolution to Restoration: French Drawings from The Horvitz Collection","raw":"Revolution to Restoration: French Drawings from The Horvitz Collection features approximately 90 drawings made from the 1770s through the 1850s, one of the most turbulent periods in French history. During this time, France abolished the monarchy, established a republic, terrorized perceived political enemies, waged war across the continent, imposed an empire, and eventually reinstated the monarchy—and these are only a handful of the tumultuous episodes that occurred across this 80-year period. Despite this profound instability, the country’s cultural environment flourished, spurring a significant stylistic shift in artistic production. Influenced by the rationalist ideas and moral seriousness of such Enlightenment thinkers as Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and inspired by important archaeological discoveries that radically altered contemporary ideas about the ancient Greco-Roman past, artists turned away from the playful, decadent Rococo style of the mid-18th century. In its place they adopted a more restrained and disciplined style, now known as Neoclassicism, a term invented only in the 19th century. Featuring works by the most accomplished and influential artists of the time, including Jacques-Louis David, Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Pierre-Paul Prud’hon, and Théodore Géricault, the exhibition explores the impact of ancient Greek and Roman art, history, and mythology on artistic production, as well as the role of the Academy, changing social norms, and convulsive contemporary events. The selected drawings showcase a variety of media—pen and ink, watercolor, chalk, and pastel—and highlight how artists of the period demonstrated a surprisingly modern combination of intellectual curiosity, political commitment, and graphic virtuosity. The presentation demonstrates the expressive versatility and powerful immediacy of drawing as a medium of persuasion, propaganda, and, above all, aesthetic stimulation."}
{"i":541,"title":"After the End of the World: Pictures from Panafrica","raw":"What meanings has Earth held for people of African descent, and what can an environmental consciousness grounded in Pan-Africanist perspectives teach all of humanity today? Conceived to accompany the major survey exhibition Project a Black Planet: The Art and Culture of Panafrica (on view at the Art Institute December 15, 2024–March 30, 2025), this exhibition, drawn from the museum’s collection, addresses the planet itself. Works by 17 artists in film, photography, and book arts draw attention to three vital and intertwined interactions with the land: as a path to freedom, as a means of spiritual and bodily sustenance, and as a source of enlightenment. Works by artists such as Carrie Mae Weems and Dawoud Bey retrace nocturnal paths to freedom. For example, Weems’s North Star stems from the experience of her grandfather, labor organizer Frank Weems, who made a path from rural Arkansas to Chicago in 1936 by traveling at night and following Polaris, the North Star. Like many others who found their way to freedom, Weems saved his life but lost his family and never could return to his birthplace. Foregrounding the interrelation of food and spiritual wisdom are works by Radcliffe Bailey and Luis Medina as well as the room-filling photo installation Bori (Feed the Head) by Candomblé priest and visual artist Ayrson Heráclito. Bori memorializes a ritual performance in which Heráclito encircled the heads of one dozen initiated participants with mounded ingredients to nourish individual Yoruba deities."}
{"i":542,"title":"Neapolitan Crèche","raw":"The Art Institute’s spectacular 18th-century Neapolitan crèche returns once again this holiday season. This crèche, or Nativity scene, tells the story of Jesus Christ’s birth using more than 200 painted terracotta figures staged in an elaborate environment inspired by 18th-century Naples. The upper register of the crèche contains the main characters of the Nativity—the Holy Family (Mary, Joseph, and Jesus) and the Three Wise Men, along with angels and shepherds. Surrounding them are scenes of Neapolitan daily life, including a raucous tavern, a bucolic pasture, and a street crowded with vendors. These representations celebrate Naples as a cosmopolitan port city that included people from all walks of life. They also demonstrate the lens of exoticism through which many Europeans viewed visitors from other lands, non-Christians, and people of color. Though Naples had long been home to people from throughout the Islamic world, here they are shown as foreigners, confined to the biblical scene in the upper register and wearing turbans and billowing trousers that contrast with the rustic Neapolitan garb of the figures below. Enlivening ancient biblical stories with modern costume and scenery is typical in the crèche genre and, more broadly, in European religious art since the Renaissance. By highlighting the vibrant social fabric of Baroque Naples, the crèche invites viewers to witness the miraculous amid the mundane and to delight in the hustle and bustle of everyday life."}
{"i":543,"title":"Beatriz Santiago Muñoz: The Crow, the Trench, and the Mare","raw":"As part of the Art Institute’s presentation of art and artists who engage with the ideas and of Pan-Africanism, the museum is screening Beatriz Santiago Muñoz’s 2021 film The Crow, the Trench and the Mare. Muñoz created this film in Haiti and Puerto Rico as a meditative reflection on a fundamental metaphysical subject: human awareness of time and space. Muñoz took inspiration from a technique in Sanskrit poetry called ślesa, in which two distinct stories are narrated at once. The film tracks Haitian playwright Guy Regis Junior (born 1974) as he discusses translating the classic 20th-century novel by Marcel Proust, Remembrance of Things Past, from French into Haitian Kreyol. This account is intertwined with a monologue by Italian physicist Carlo Rovelli (born 1956) about the meaning of time and the possibility of many “nows” unfolding at once. The film hints throughout at connections between disparate places and events, as well as the ways that a linear understanding of time limits our understanding of the world’s dynamic complexities. Beatriz Santiago Muñoz: The Crow, the Trench, and the Mare is curated by Antawan I. Byrd, associate curator of Photography and Media, Art Institute of Chicago, and assistant professor of Art History, Northwestern University; Adom Getachew, Professor of Political Science and Race, Diaspora and Indigeneity, University of Chicago; and Matthew S. Witkovsky, vice president for strategic art initiatives and Sandor Chair of Photography and Media, Art Institute of Chicago."}
{"i":544,"title":"Project a Black Planet: The Art and Culture of Panafrica","raw":"Pan-Africanism, first named and theorized around 1900, is commonly regarded as an umbrella term for political movements that have advanced the call for both individual self-determination and global solidarity among peoples of African descent. It has yet to be fully examined as a worldview that takes its force from art and culture. As the first major exhibition to survey Pan-Africanism’s cultural manifestations, Project a Black Planet: The Art and Culture of Panafrica gathers together some 350 objects, spanning the 1920s to the present, made by artists on four continents: Africa, North and South America, and Europe. Panafrica, the promised land named in the exhibition title, is presented as a conceptual place where arguments about decolonization, solidarity, and freedom are advanced and negotiated with the aim of an emancipatory future. Rather than a stable and defined territory, the exhibition maps Panafrica as a shifting and boundless constellation that transforms and reassembles standard representation of the planet. In fact, many artists featured in the exhibition have creatively redrawn the map of Africa or the world: Yto Barrada (Paris, born 1971, lives in Tangier and New York), Kerry James Marshall (Birmingham, born 1955, lives in Chicago), and Abdoulaye Ndoye (Dakar, born 1951, lives in Dakar). Others, including David Hammons (Springfield, IL, born 1943, lives in New York), Edith de Kyndt (Ypres, born 1960, lives in Berlin and Brussels), Chris Ofili (Manchester, born 1968, lives in Port of Spain and London), and Kawira Mwirichia (Nairobi, 1984–2020), have made flags which correspond to no official nation but rather imagine a transnational solidarity."}
{"i":555,"title":"P. S. Art 2026: Celebrating the Creative Spirit of New York City Kids","raw":"P. S. Art is an annual celebration of the creativity, talent, and artistic achievement of New York City Public Schools students and their dedicated art teachers. This year marks the 24th anniversary of P. S. Art, and the 19th year this juried exhibition has been presented at The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition features 125 exceptional works selected from nearly 1,000 submissions by students in prekindergarten through grade 12. The works on view—including collages, drawings, mixed-media pieces, paintings, photographs, prints, and sculptures—represent student artists from all five boroughs of New York City, as well as District 75, the citywide district serving students with disabilities. Each artwork reflects meaningful student engagement and decision making, imaginative use of materials, careful observation, and a growing understanding of artistic processes. Together, these works illuminate the ideas, questions, and discoveries that shape students’ artistic journeys from early childhood through young adulthood. Dedicated and supportive art educators play an essential role in fostering student creativity and contributing to students’ social and emotional growth. Through encouragement and thoughtful instruction, art teachers challenge students to observe the world around them and express their understanding through artistic practice. As students continue their arts education year after year, they deepen their knowledge of artistic concepts, strengthen technical skills, and develop the imagination and confidence needed to communicate their unique perspectives. Sustained, high-quality arts education is vital to ensuring that all students have opportunities to grow and thrive creatively. New York City Public Schools and the NYCPS Arts Office gratefully acknowledge Studio in a School and The Met for their valued partnership. Special thanks to Studio in a School for its sponsorship and coordination of P. S. Art 2026. NYCPS and the Arts Office also extend sincere"}
{"i":569,"title":"Baseball Cards from the Collection of Jefferson R. Burdick","raw":"This exhibition is temporarily closed due to gallery maintenance. We look forward to welcoming visitors when it reopens in the spring of 2027. The Jefferson R. Burdick collection of ephemera at The Met contains one of the most distinguished collections of historical baseball cards anywhere in the world. In 1947, Burdick (1900–1963), an electrician from Syracuse, New York, and avid collector of ephemera, began to donate in large batches his holdings of more than 300,000 trade cards, postcards, and posters to the Museum. Included in the donation were more than 30,000 baseball cards dating back to the 1880s."}
{"i":581,"title":"Filling in the Gaps: A Selection of Works by the 2026 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards New York City Gold Key Recipients","raw":"This exhibition features more than 500 works of art and writing by New York City teens who received the highest regional recognition in the 2026 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards—the Gold Key Award. Presented by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, the Scholastic Awards are the longest-running and most prestigious recognition program for creative teens in the United States. This year, 4,000 teens in grades 7–12 entered more than 17,000 works, representing 200 schools in all five boroughs. The Alliance for Young Artists & Writers’ mission is to identify students with exceptional artistic and literary talent and present their visionary work to the world through opportunities for recognition, exhibition, publication, and scholarships. Former winners include artists Andy Warhol, Cy Twombly, Kay WalkingStick, and John Baldessari—all represented in The Met collection—as well as Tschabalala Self, Stephen King, José Parlá, Amanda Gorman, Charles White, and Joyce Carol Oates. To learn more about the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers and the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards, visit artandwriting.org or connect on Instagram @artandwriting and use #GoldKey."}
{"i":599,"title":"Allegory and Abstraction: Selections from the Department of Drawings and Prints","raw":"The Department of Drawings and Prints boasts more than one million drawings, prints, and illustrated books made in Europe and the Americas from around 1400 to the present day. Because of their number and sensitivity to light, the works can only be exhibited for a limited period. To highlight the vast range of works on paper, the department organizes four rotations a year in the Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Gallery. Each installation is the product of a collaboration among curators and consists of up to 100 objects grouped by artist, technique, style, period, or subject. The current installation explores the ways artists embed their works with complex layers of meaning, whether relating stories, ideas, and feelings through symbols, as in allegory, or suggesting them through line, color, and pattern, as in abstraction. Featured is Matisse’s 1947 series Jazz, a spectacular array of bold, colorful images that bring to mind ostensibly joyful memories of circuses, folktales, and travel, while also alluding to the dark days in France during World War II. From the same year, Louise Bourgeois’s He Disappeared into Complete Silence, described by the artist as “a drama of the self,” similarly deploys allegory and abstraction to create a compelling psychological self-portrait. Also on view are depictions of dancers, ranging in date from the Renaissance to the twentieth century. In these works, palpable emotions and entire stories unfold through abstract bodily movements. Completing the selection are important watercolors by J. M.W. Turner and Thomas Girtin in recognition of the two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of each artist’s birth—practitioners whose treatment of light, color, and atmosphere anticipated aspects of twentieth-century abstraction."}
{"i":600,"title":"Lorna Simpson: Source Notes","raw":"This presentation of work by New York–based artist Lorna Simpson is the first exhibition to consider the entirety of her painting practice to date. Simpson came to prominence in the early 1990s with her pioneering approach to conceptual photography. Since then, she has produced works in multiple media that continue to probe the nature of images and how they construct meaning. Lorna Simpson: Source Notes focuses on a significant new development in her work of the last 10 years: paintings that advance her incisive explorations of gender, race, identity, representation, and history. Through more than 30 works, this focused exhibition presents a selection of Simpson’s major paintings, including examples from her acclaimed Venice Biennale debut in 2015 and her celebrated series Special Characters, along with a recent sculpture and related collages. Throughout Simpson’s expansive practice, she has often sourced imagery and drawn inspiration from vintage Ebony and Jet magazines (icons of culture in contemporary America), as well as the archives of the Associated Press and Library of Congress. Simpson incorporates her findings into screen-printed collages with washes of ink and acrylic on fiberglass, wood, or Claybord. These works dynamically collide figuration and abstraction with bodies that emerge and disappear, peering from inky surfaces or dissolving into landscapes of melting ice. They use found images—the artist’s “source notes”—to generate visual power, exemplifying Simpson’s skillful blurring of genres. The catalogue is made possible by the Mellon Foundation and Allison and Larry Berg. This revelatory look at the paintings of Lorna Simpson examines this significant new development in her practice over the last decade."}
{"i":601,"title":"Superfine: Tailoring Black Style","raw":"The Costume Institute’s spring 2025 exhibition presents a cultural and historical examination of Black style over three hundred years through the concept of dandyism. In the 18th-century Atlantic world, a new culture of consumption, fueled by the slave trade, colonialism, and imperialism, enabled access to clothing and goods that indicated wealth, distinction, and taste. Black dandyism sprung from the intersection of African and European style traditions. Superfine: Tailoring Black Style explores the importance of style to the formation of Black identities in the Atlantic diaspora, particularly in the United States and Europe. Through a presentation of garments and accessories, paintings, photographs, decorative arts, and more, from the 18th century to today, the exhibition interprets the concept of dandyism as both an aesthetic and a strategy that allowed for new social and political possibilities. Superfine is organized into 12 sections, each representing a characteristic that defines the style, such as Champion, Respectability, Heritage, Beauty, and Cosmopolitanism. Together, these characteristics demonstrate how one’s self-presentation is a mode of distinction and resistance—within a society impacted by race, gender, class, and sexuality. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here Tells viewers that respectability is many things, ever-changing. It is ageless."}
{"i":602,"title":"P. S. Art 2025: Celebrating the Creative Spirit of New York City Kids","raw":"P. S. Art is an annual celebration of the artistic achievement of remarkable New York City Public School students and their dedicated art teachers. This year marks the twenty-third anniversary of P. S. Art, and the eighteenth year this juried exhibition has been hosted at The Met. It showcases 137 extraordinary works selected from nearly 1,000 entries by students in prekindergarten to grade 12. On view are collages, drawings, mixed-media works, paintings, photographs, prints, and sculptures by artists in all five New York City boroughs as well as District 75, a citywide district serving students with disabilities. Each work demonstrates active student participation and decision making in the creation process; imaginative use of media; the results of close observation; and an understanding of artistic processes. This exhibition illuminates the students’ journeys, questions, and discoveries from early childhood to young adulthood. Supportive and engaged art educators play a vital role in nurturing student creativity, which positively impacts their social emotional growth. Art teachers encourage and challenge the students to observe the world around them and articulate their understanding through art making. As students progress through consecutive art courses from one year to the next, they develop a deeper understanding of artistic principles, refine their technical abilities, and cultivate the imaginative capacity necessary to convey their unique perspectives through art. A robust, continuous arts program is essential to ensure that students develop and thrive creatively. The New York City Public Schools (NYCPS) and Arts Office gratefully acknowledge Studio in a School (SIAS) and The Metropolitan Museum of Art for their valued partnership. Heartfelt thanks to SIAS for their sponsorship and substantial role in the selection process and coordination of P. S. Art 2025. The NYCPS and Arts Office also express deep gratitude to The Met for their thoughtful involvement in"}
{"i":603,"title":"The Roof Garden Commission: Jennie C. Jones, Ensemble","raw":"For the 2025 Roof Garden Commission, Jennie C. Jones (born 1968, Cincinnati, Ohio) has produced Ensemble. Only her second outdoor sculptural installation, the project explores the sonic potential of stringed instruments as well as their formal possibilities. In the artist's unique response to modernism, these acoustic sculptures propose the line of the string as a proxy for art history, unbroken and continuous. In her paintings, sculptures, works on paper, installations, and audio compositions, Jones uses sound to respond to the legacy of minimalism and to modernism itself. Drawing on her immersion in Black improvisation and avant-garde music, she deploys sound and listening as important conceptual elements of her practice, from the acoustic fiberglass panels she affixes to canvas, which absorb sound and affect the acoustic properties of the environment, to the lines and bars she creates through her compositions that refer to elements of musical notation. Her work across media offers new possibilities for minimalist abstraction, challenging how—and by whom—it is produced. This exhibition is the final Roof Garden Commission before the space temporarily closes in preparation for the construction of the Tang Wing, The Met’s new home for its collection of modern and contemporary art. The series will resume following the anticipated 2030 reopening of the renovated wing, which will feature an expanded Cantor Roof Garden on the fourth floor. Polsky, and Melony and Adam Lewis. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary and Louis S. Myers Foundation Endowment Fund and the Mellon Foundation."}
{"i":604,"title":"The Magic of Marbling: The Art of Karli Frigge","raw":"Karli Frigge (1943–) is one of the world’s most prominent and innovative paper marblers. From 1960 to 2000 she produced marbled papers and publications that are renowned for their innovation and creativity. The Magic of Marbling: The Art of Karli Frigge presents selections from Watson Library’s collection of her work including her sample books, recipe books, instruction guides, and workbooks. Frigge studied bookbinding at the Graphic School in Holland and the Rotterdam Academy of Decorative Arts (now the William de Kooning Academy) under Dieuweke Kollweijn, a preeminent Dutch bookbinder. Frigge has distributed and published examples of her marbling in numerous limited-edition formats. Her most recent publication from 2023 is titled Set of Historical Marbled Papers. This extraordinary collection brings together a selection of her marbled papers made between 1974 and 1998 and serves as a retrospective including her signature patterns: landscape, tiger eye, and alchemy marbles. Watson Library’s collection of Karli Frigge’s work is part of a larger outstanding collection on the history of papermaking and decorated paper. The collection was enhanced in 2016 by a significant donation of four hundred and fifty books from Mary Schlosser. In 2018, Mindell Dubansky, Museum Librarian for Conservation and Preservation, started a Paper Legacy Collection that now holds the work of more than fifty American decorated paper artists active from the 1960s to 2000s. That collection includes extensive paper samples, publications, tools, recipe books, and personal correspondence. The exhibition of Karli Frigge’s work is complemented by Frigge’s vivid, inspirational quotes about the practice of marbling and by insightful comments from Sidney E. Berger, Frigge’s biographer. His comprehensive account, Karli Frigge’s Life in Marbling, is on display in the exhibition."}
{"i":605,"title":"Recasting the Past: The Art of Chinese Bronzes, 1100–1900","raw":"Chinese bronzes made from the 12th to the 19th century are an important but often overlooked category of Chinese art. In ancient China, bronze vessels were emblems of ritual and power. A millennium later, in the period from 1100 to 1900, such vessels were rediscovered as embodiments of a long-lost golden age that was worthy of study and emulation. This “return to the past” (fugu) was part of a widespread phenomenon across all the arts to reclaim the virtues of a classical tradition. An important aspect of this phenomenon was the revival of bronze casting as a major art form. While archaic bronzes were used as containers for food or wine, these so-called “later bronzes” adapted antique shapes and decorative motifs to serve new functions as incense burners, flower vases, and all types of scholar objects. Later Chinese bronzes, however, have long been stigmatized as poor imitations of ancient bronzes rather than being seen as fundamentally new creations with their own aesthetic and functional character. From important bronzes to a complementary selection of works including painting, calligraphy, ceramics, lacquers, and jades, the exhibition draws on an international array of loans to redress the previous misunderstanding of later Chinese bronzes. Some 100 pieces from The Met collection will be augmented by nearly 100 loans from major institutions in China, Japan, Korea, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and the United States to present the most comprehensive narrative of the ongoing importance of bronzes as an art medium throughout China’s long history. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions and the Joseph Hotung Fund. The exhibition is organized by The Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Shanghai Museum."}
{"i":606,"title":"City and Country: Selections from the Department of Drawings and Prints","raw":"The Department of Drawings and Prints boasts more than one million drawings, prints, and illustrated books made in Europe and the Americas from around 1400 to the present day. Because of their number and sensitivity to light, the works can only be exhibited for a limited period. To highlight the vast range of works on paper, the department organizes four rotations a year in the Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Gallery. Each installation is the product of a collaboration among curators and consists of up to 100 objects grouped by artist, technique, style, period, or subject. Featuring a variety of works spanning the seventeenth to the twentieth century, this installation touches on the theme of city and country. It includes recently acquired Netherlandish landscape drawings as well as British and Swedish landscapes from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries; it further spotlights work depicting beached whales, a popular subject in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Holland. Other sections highlight French Neoclassical drawings that illustrate the ever-shifting allegiances at the end of the eighteenth century and works by French women artists of the same period, with a particular focus on the relationships between these artists, their materials and techniques, and their participation in the French Revolution. City and Country also features self-portraits across time, scenes of city dwellers and urban window-shoppers, and a selection of British propaganda posters and trade cards from World War II in commemoration of the eightieth anniversary of the war’s end."}
{"i":607,"title":"Monstrous Beauty: A Feminist Revision of Chinoiserie","raw":"Monstrous Beauty: A Feminist Revision of Chinoiserie radically reimagines the story of European porcelain through a feminist lens. When porcelain arrived in early modern Europe from China, it led to the rise of chinoiserie, a decorative style that encompassed Europe’s fantasies of the East and fixations on the exotic, along with new ideas about women, sexuality, and race. This exhibition explores how this fragile material shaped both European women’s identities and racial and cultural stereotypes around Asian women. Shattering the illusion of chinoiserie as a neutral, harmless fantasy, Monstrous Beauty adopts a critical glance at the historical style and its afterlives, recasting negative terms through a lens of female empowerment. Bringing together nearly 200 historical and contemporary works spanning from 16th-century Europe to contemporary installations by Asian and Asian American women artists, Monstrous Beauty illuminates chinoiserie through a conceptual framework that brings the past into active dialog with the present. In demand during the 1700s as the embodiment of Europe’s fantasy of the East, porcelain accumulated strong associations with female taste over its complex history. Fragile, delicate, and sharp when broken, it became a resonant metaphor for women, who became the protagonists of new narratives around cultural exchange, consumption, and desire. The exhibition is made possible by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and the Mellon Foundation. Rhodes and Leona B. Carpenter Foundation, Karen and Samuel Choi, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Edward John & Patricia Rosenwald Foundation, and Mimi O. Kim."}
{"i":608,"title":"Sargent and Paris","raw":"Sargent and Paris explores the early career of American painter John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), from his arrival in Paris in 1874 as a precocious 18-year-old art student through the mid-1880s, when his infamous portrait Madame X was a scandalous success at the Paris Salon. Over the course of one extraordinary decade, Sargent achieved recognition by creating boldly ambitious portraits and figure paintings that pushed the boundaries of conventionality. Immersed in a cosmopolitan circle of artists, writers, and patrons, Sargent was able to navigate a successful path through the French exhibition system while achieving acclaim and awards. Beyond the portrait studio, he traveled in search of inspiration for his art—finding subjects in Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and North Africa. This exhibition gathers Sargent’s diverse works from this period to illuminate his path to becoming an artist, which was indelibly shaped by his experiences in the French capital. These visually stunning works provide a compelling view of the Paris art world of the late 19th century. The iconic Madame X, a beloved highlight of The Met collection, is the culmination of Sargent’s early years in Paris. The exhibition will take an in-depth look at this captivating portrait and the numerous preparatory sketches, and it will be displayed alongside select portraits of Parisiennes by Sargent’s contemporaries. The exhibition is made possible by The Marguerite and Frank A. Cosgrove Jr. Fund."}
{"i":609,"title":"The Three Perfections: Japanese Poetry, Calligraphy, and Painting from the Mary and Cheney Cowles Collection","raw":"In East Asian cultures, the arts of poetry, calligraphy, and painting are traditionally referred to as the “Three Perfections.” This exhibition presents over 160 rare and precious works—all created in Japan over the course of nearly a millennium—that showcase the power and complexity of the three forms of art. Examples include folding screens with poems brushed on sumptuous decorated papers, dynamic calligraphy by Zen monks of medieval Kyoto, hanging scrolls with paintings and inscriptions alluding to Chinese and Japanese literary classics, ceramics used for tea gatherings, and much more. The majority of the works are among the more than 250 examples of Japanese painting and calligraphy donated or promised to The Met by Mary and Cheney Cowles, whose collection is one of the finest and most comprehensive assemblages of Japanese art outside Japan. The exhibition is made possible by The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Foundation Fund. This sumptuous survey examines the interrelationship of poetry, calligraphy, and painting in Japanese art through more than 100 works, including hanging scrolls, folding screens, handscrolls, and albums."}
{"i":610,"title":"Baseball Cards from the Collection of Jefferson R. Burdick","raw":"The Jefferson R. Burdick collection of ephemera at The Met contains one of the most distinguished collections of historical baseball cards anywhere in the world. In 1947, Burdick (1900–1963), an electrician from Syracuse, New York, and avid collector of ephemera, began to donate in large batches his holdings of more than 300,000 trade cards, postcards, and posters to the Museum. Included in the donation were more than 30,000 baseball cards dating back to the 1880s. This exhibition features over one hundred cards dating from 1895 to 1956. Produced using a variety of printing techniques and in a range of styles, the cards feature legends of the game from a bygone era."}
{"i":611,"title":"The New Art: American Photography, 1839–1910","raw":"This exhibition presents a bold new history of American photography from the medium’s birth in 1839 to the first decade of the 20th century. Drawn from The Met’s William L. Schaeffer Collection, major works by lauded artists such as Josiah Johnson Hawes, John Moran, Carleton Watkins, and Alice Austen are shown in dialogue with extraordinary photographs by obscure or unknown practitioners made in small towns and cities from coast to coast. Featuring a range of formats, from daguerreotypes and cartes de visite to stereographs and cyanotypes, the show explores the dramatic change in the nation’s sense of itself that was driven by the immediate success of photography as a cultural, commercial, artistic, and psychological preoccupation. In 1835, even before the nearly simultaneous announcement of the invention of the new art in Paris and London, the American philosopher essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson noted with remarkable vision: “Our Age is Ocular.” The exhibition is made possible by the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund and the Diane Carol Brandt Fund."}
{"i":612,"title":"Jesse Krimes: Corrections","raw":"Photography has played a key role in structuring systems of power in society, including those related to crime and punishment. This exhibition presents immersive contemporary installations by the artist Jesse Krimes (American, b. 1982) alongside nineteenth-century photographs from The Met collection by the French criminologist Alphonse Bertillon, who developed the first modern system of criminal identification before the adoption of fingerprinting. Krimes’s image-based installations, made over the course of his six-year incarceration, reflect the ingenuity of an artist working without access to traditional materials. Employing prison-issued soap, hair gel, playing cards, and newspaper he created works of art that seek to disrupt and recontextualize the circulation of photographs in the media. Displayed at The Met in dialogue with Bertillon, whose pioneering method paired anthropomorphic measurements with photographs to produce the present-day mug shot, Krimes’s work raises questions about the perceived neutrality of our systems of identification and the hierarchies of social imbalance they create and reinscribe. An artist for whom collaboration and activism are vital, Krimes founded the Center for Art and Advocacy to highlight the talent and creative potential among individuals who have experienced incarceration and to support and improve outcomes for formerly incarcerated artists."}
{"i":613,"title":"The Genesis Facade Commission: Lee Bul, Long Tail Halo","raw":"South Korean artist Lee Bul (born 1964, Yeongju, based in Seoul) has transformed the iconic niches of the Museum’s Fifth Avenue facade with four new works that challenge what sculptures can reveal about our times. Responding to the facade as a site for statues, Lee’s towering sculptures are at once classical and contemporary, forthcoming and elusive. This arresting ambiguity, expressed through amalgamated bodily, mechanical, and architectural archetypes and personal and collective memories, explores how history can be admired as well as destabilized. With a career that spans four decades, Lee is known for her sophisticated use of both highly industrial and labor-intensive materials, incorporating artisanal practices as well as technological advancements into her work. The Genesis Facade Commission: Lee Bul, Long Tail Halo is the artist’s first major project in the United States in more than twenty years and the fifth in the series of contemporary commissions for The Met Fifth Avenue’s facade niches. The Genesis Facade Commission is part of The Met’s series of contemporary commissions in which the Museum invites artists to create new works of art, establishing a dialogue between the artist’s practice, The Met collection, the physical Museum, and The Met’s audiences. Polsky, the Director’s Fund, the Kahng Foundation, Miyoung Lee and Neil Simpkins, Helen Lee-Warren and David Warren, and Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley."}
{"i":614,"title":"Democratizing Prints: The JoAnn Edinburg Pinkowitz Gift","raw":"The Department of Drawings and Prints boasts more than one million drawings, prints, and illustrated books made in Europe and the Americas from around 1400 to the present day. Because of their number and sensitivity to light, the works can only be exhibited for a limited period and are usually housed in on-site storage facilities. To highlight the vast range of works on paper, the department organizes four rotations a year in the Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Gallery. Each installation is the product of a collaboration among curators and consists of up to 100 objects grouped by artist, technique, style, period, or subject. In 2024, the Museum received a remarkable gift from JoAnn Edinburg Pinkowitz of some three hundred prints by Mexican and other (mainly American) artists who worked in Mexico. This gift builds on JoAnn’s earlier donation of twentieth-century Chinese prints of the modern woodcut movement. JoAnn was raised in a family passionate about collecting art. During the 1960s, as a teenager, she volunteered in the Department of Prints and Drawings at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. She began collecting prints in 2009 after being inspired by the museum's exhibition Vida y Drama: Modern Mexican Prints. JoAnn was attracted to art that had a strong social and political message. Many of the prints on view were published by the Taller de Gráfica Popular (Workshop of Popular Graphic Art), a printmaking collective founded in 1937 in Mexico City “with the aim of stimulating graphic arts production in the interests of the Mexican people.” In the 1950s, artists from the workshop traveled to China, where they introduced their work to local artists. Artists from both countries treated similar subjects, and this spurred JoAnn to give Chinese prints to The Met. The Pinkowitz material dovetails perfectly with The Met’s outstanding collection of Mexican prints and includes works by artists not previously represented. Prints by American artists in Mexico and mid-century Chinese ar"}
{"i":615,"title":"The Celebration: A Selection of Works by the 2025 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards New York City Gold Key Recipients","raw":"This exhibition features more than 500 works of art and writing by New York City teens who received the highest regional recognition in the 2025 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards—the Gold Key Award. Presented by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, the Scholastic Awards are the longest-running and most prestigious recognition program for creative teens in the United States. The Met is honored to host this annual exhibition and celebrate the creativity of these young artists. This year more than 2,500 students in grades 7 to 12 entered nearly 14,800 works to the New York City Region of the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards, encompassing nearly 250 schools in all five boroughs. In addition, more than 200 literary and visual arts professionals served as judges, selecting works based on originality, skill, and emergence of a personal voice or vision. The Alliance for Young Artists & Writers’ mission is to identify students with exceptional artistic and literary talent and present their visionary work to the world through opportunities for recognition, exhibition, publication, and scholarships. Established in 1923, the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards bring the work of young people to regional and national audiences. Former winners include artists Andy Warhol, Cy Twombly, Kay WalkingStick, and John Baldessari—all represented in The Met collection—as well as Tschabalala Self, Stephen King, José Parlá, Amanda Gorman, Charles White, and Joyce Carol Oates. To learn more about the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers and the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards, visit artandwriting.org, contact info@artandwriting.org, or connect on Instagram @artandwriting and use #GoldKey."}
{"i":616,"title":"Caspar David Friedrich: The Soul of Nature","raw":"Caspar David Friedrich (1774–1840) reimagined European landscape painting by portraying nature as a setting for profound spiritual and emotional encounters. Working in the vanguard of the German Romantic movement, which championed a radical new understanding of the bond between nature and the inner self, Friedrich developed pictorial subjects and strategies that emphasize the individuality, intimacy, open-endedness, and complexity of our responses to the natural world. The vision of the landscape that unfolds in his art—meditative, mysterious, and full of wonder—is still vital today. Caspar David Friedrich: The Soul of Nature is the first comprehensive exhibition dedicated to the artist held in the United States. Organized in cooperation with the Alte Nationalgalerie of the Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden, and Hamburger Kunsthalle, with unprecedented loans from more than 30 lenders in Europe and North America, the exhibition presents approximately 75 works by Friedrich. Oil paintings, finished drawings, and working sketches from every phase of the artist’s career, along with select examples by his contemporaries, illuminate how Friedrich developed a symbolic vocabulary of landscape motifs to convey the personal and existential meanings that he discovered in nature. The exhibition situates Friedrich’s art within the tumultuous politics and vibrant culture of 19th-century German society and, by extension, highlights the role of German Romanticism in shaping modern perceptions of the natural world. The exhibition is complemented by a display of artworks featuring lunar imagery in gallery 554, located just beyond the exhibition exit. The moon—a motif cherished by Caspar David Friedrich and other Romantic artists—was celebrated across various media, including paintings, porcelain, music, and poetry. Levin Fund, Art Mentor Foundation Lucerne, Barbara A. Wolfe, an Anonymous Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of"}
{"i":617,"title":"Floridas: Anastasia Samoylova and Walker Evans","raw":"Nothing in Florida is quite what it seems. A popular tourist destination since the early twentieth century, it is a place where fantasy and reality collide, a subtropical paradise threatened by hurricanes and rising sea levels, a refuge for extremism and eccentricity. This exhibition brings together photographs and paintings of Florida by two artists of different generations who have sought to understand its complexity and contradictions: Anastasia Samoylova (born 1984), a Russian-American photographer based in Miami, and Walker Evans (1903–1975), an influential originator of documentary-style American photography. “Florida is ghastly and very pleasant where I am,” Evans wrote to a friend during his first visit there, in 1934. Over the next forty years, he returned repeatedly, creating a large but little-known body of work depicting the state’s unique natural and cultural landscape: palm trees and pelicans, real estate billboards and souvenir stands, Gilded Age mansions and “tin can” tourist camps. In addition to photographs, the exhibition includes paintings, negatives, and postcards drawn from The Met’s Walker Evans Archive. Samoylova has been photographing Florida since 2016, crisscrossing the state in a series of meandering road trips, from the southernmost Keys to the state’s borders with Alabama and Georgia. Building on Evans’s legacy, she creates vibrant photographs and mixed-media paintings that temper the shimmering seductions of the Sunshine State with an awareness of the troubling consequences of climate change, gentrification, and political extremism. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc."}
{"i":618,"title":"Ink and Ivory: Indian Drawings and Photographs Selected with James Ivory","raw":"This focused exhibition presents a selection of superlative drawings from the courts and centers of India and Pakistan (with a few related Persian works) dating from the late sixteenth to the twentieth century. These works are mainly selected from The Met collection in partnership with film director James Ivory, whose recent gift to the Museum of nineteenth-century photograph albums will also be featured in the exhibition (2021.381.1-16). The drawings will include fresh and informal preparatory exercises for paintings as well as beautifully finished works in their own right. The photographs will present the subject matter and styles that came about in the contexts of royal patronage and ceremony; views of architecture, cities, landscapes, and people, among others. As an artist and filmmaker, James Ivory will help us appreciate this material through his unique gaze. A short film — An Arrested Moment — directed by Dev Benegal, will accompany the show."}
{"i":619,"title":"Art of Commerce: Trade Catalogs in Watson Library","raw":"Art of Commerce: Trade Catalogs in Watson Library features a selection of the library’s extensive holdings of sale catalogs. Watson Library has almost two thousand trade catalogs published in many countries from the eighteenth century to the present. Objects featured include furniture, jewelry, tiles, ironwork, glasswork, lighting, stoves, tableware, textiles, decorative paper, artist’s materials, fashion, typography, automobiles, and musical instruments. Numerous catalogs illustrate works of art or related objects now in The Met collection. The library has strong holdings of Art Deco trade catalogs including Modern furniture design = Le dessin moderne des meubles—a colorful furniture portfolio by Czech architect Karel Vepřek—and Van Clef Arpels présentent, an elegantly illustrated accessories publication designed by Draeger Frères, the most innovative graphic designers and printers of the period. Both catalogs are on display in the exhibition. Trade or sale catalogs — also called commercial or manufacturer's catalogs —are printed publications advertising products of a particular trade or industry. Sale catalogs were often used in shops or showrooms to promote a company’s products. Examples include the massive Reed and Barton catalog Artistic workers in silver & gold plate from 1885 that illustrates the entire inventory of the company. Since their invention, automobiles have been creatively promoted through catalogs. Automobile catalogs in the library’s collection range from vivid brochures to oversized car showroom copies with moveable diagrams and transparencies to intrigue and persuade the customer, including 1953 Chevrolet and 1961 Buick. Sale catalogs are valuable sources for determining the date and authenticity of objects and are often highly expressive of their historical moment. They frequently represent the most innovative and creative examples of printing and graphic design, used by manufacturers and publishers to best illustrate their products. Watson’s"}
{"i":620,"title":"Jazz-Age Silks: The Stehli Silks Americana Collection, 1925–1928","raw":"This installation introduces a charming and historically significant group of 1920s dress silks designed by some of the leading commercial artists of that era. While the American fashion industry was previously dependent on French textile and dress design, the “Americana Collection” set out to prove that the fifteen American designers commissioned (a group that included both male and female designers) were as talented as French designers. The Stehli Silks Corporation took a gamble on these bold designs, many showing images of 1920s American life. The installation includes information on the rise of American design for the American consumer in the early years of the twentieth century, the visual and popular culture of the 1920s that informed the textile designs, and it also introduces the various designers who were involved with this groundbreaking textile line. Some of the designers, like photographer Edward Steichen and cartoonist John Held, Jr., are still remembered today, while others, considered equally talented in their day, have faded from memory. The installation features 16 textiles, as well as photographs of models wearing “flapper” dresses made from the textiles, illustrated books and newspaper clippings about the textile line, and examples of the designs featured in the fashion magazines of the day."}
{"i":621,"title":"The Great Hall Commission: Tong Yang-Tze, Dialogue","raw":"For the 2024 Great Hall Commission, Taiwanese artist Tong Yang-Tze (born 1942, Shanghai, based in Taipei) has created two monumental works of Chinese calligraphy for the Museum’s historic space. Her project is the third in the series of commissions for The Met’s Great Hall and the artist’s first major project in the United States. Tong is one of the most celebrated artists working exclusively in calligraphy today. Best known for making calligraphy in monumental scale, Tong brings Chinese characters into dialogue with three-dimensional space and pushes the conceptual and compositional boundaries of the art form, while remaining dedicated to calligraphy’s raison d’être as the art of writing. Her commitment to the written characters is rooted in her belief in their centrality in Chinese culture and calligraphy’s capacity for visual, emotional, and social impact beyond linguistic barriers. Working on the floor in her home, she manipulates the movement and tension in the brushstrokes, the foremost quality in calligraphy. The oversized characters pose physical, formal, and conceptual challenges, while they offer new compositional possibilities and viewing experience. The Great Hall Commission is part of The Met’s series of contemporary commissions in which the Museum invites artists to create new works of art, establishing a dialogue between the artist’s practice, The Met collection, the physical Museum, and The Met’s audiences. The exhibition is made possible by the Director’s Fund, Mr. T.H. Tung, Oscar L. Tang and H.M. Agnes Hsu-Tang, and Jenny Yeh, Winsing Arts Foundation."}
{"i":622,"title":"Samurai Splendor: Sword Fittings from Edo Japan","raw":"After almost a century and a half of near-constant civil war and political upheaval, Japan unified under a new ruling family, the Tokugawa, in the early 1600s. Their reign lasted for more than 250 years, in an era referred to as the Edo period, after the town of Edo (present-day Tokyo) that became the new capital of Japan. The Tokugawa regime brought economic growth, prolonged peace, and widespread enjoyment of the arts and culture. The administration also imposed strict class separation and rigid regulations for all. As a result, the ruling class—with the shogun as governing military official, the daimyo as local feudal lords, and the samurai as their retainers—had only a few ways to display personal taste in public. Fittings and accessories for their swords, which were an indispensable symbol of power and authority, became a critical means of self-expression and a focal point of artistic creation. This installation explores the luxurious aspects of Edo-period sword fashion, a fascinating form of arms and armor rarely featured in exhibitions outside Japan. It presents a selection of exquisite sword mountings, fittings, and related objects, including maker’s sketchbooks—all drawn from The Met collection and many rarely or never exhibited before."}
{"i":623,"title":"Materialized Space: The Architecture of Paul Rudolph","raw":"The Met presents the first-ever major museum exhibition to examine the career of the influential 20th-century architect Paul Rudolph, a second-generation Modernist, who came to prominence during the 1950s and 1960s alongside peers such as Eero Saarinen and I.M. Pei. Materialized Space: The Architecture of Paul Rudolph showcases the full breadth of Rudolph’s important contributions to architecture—from his early experimental houses in Florida to his civic commissions ren­dered in concrete, and from his utopian visions for urban megastructures and mixed-use sky­scrapers to his extraordinary immersive New York interiors. The exhibition gives visitors the opportunity to experience the evolution and diversity of Rudolph’s legacy and better understand how his work continues to inspire ideas of urban renewal and redevelopment in cities across the world. The presentation features a diverse range of over 80 artifacts and in a variety of scales, from small objects that he collected throughout his life to a mix of material generated from his office, including drawings, models, furniture, material samples, and photographs. Spruill and Daniel H. Cantwell, and the Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts. The exhibition was organized by The Metropolitan Museum of Art in collaboration with the Library of Congress’s Paul Marvin Rudolph Archive. The catalogue is made possible by the Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation, Inc."}
{"i":624,"title":"Hybrid Creatures and Creative Habitats: Exploring Medieval Beasts and Where They Live at The Met Cloisters","raw":"Animals, both real and imagined, make frequent appearances in medieval art. They are included in artworks as decorative elements, cultural and religious symbols, and as a reflection of the natural world. As part of The Met Cloisters’ commitment to serving neighbors in upper Manhattan, in winter 2025, third grade students from P. S. 48 PO Michael J. Buczek explored the hybrid creatures of The Met Cloisters and responded by creating modern medieval beasts and placing them in imagined habitats of their own. During two visits to The Met Cloisters, students noticed a griffin peering over a stone doorway, a dragon with a tightly coiled tail painted on a wall, and a magical unicorn woven into showstopping tapestries. Through close looking and a lot of sketching, students honed in on the details of what made these medieval creatures unique. They also considered how medieval artworks were made and what materials were used. Back in the classroom, the students designed their own creatures. Exploring new materials, they drew, painted, and collaged to create hybrid creatures and their habitats. On view at The Met Cloisters, their works of art combine different elements of real and mythical animals to form beasts with qualities that range from fearsome and ferocious to cute and kind—reflecting what the artists themselves might want to find in a magical creature. The Met Cloisters gratefully acknowledges P. S. 48 art teacher Félix Portela, Met teaching artist Pamela Lawton, and the entire P. S. 48 community for their support of this program."}
{"i":625,"title":"A Decade on Paper: Recent Acquisitions, 2014–2024","raw":"This exhibition—part of the American Wing’s 100th anniversary year programming—highlights select additions to the department’s works-on-paper holdings over the past decade. These distinctive drawings and prints, dating from the mid-nineteenth to mid-twentieth centuries, have been selected from more than 175 that have recently joined the collection. As a group, they reveal the American Wing’s renewed commitment to strengthening and expanding our collecting of works on paper by both well-known and historically understudied figures, including women and artists of color, from diverse communities and across a broad geographic range. Most of the featured artists worked in various media and are also represented in the Museum by paintings, sculptures, or decorative objects, such as Fidelia Bridges, William Glackens, Laura Coombs Hills, Charles Ethan Porter, and John Singer Sargent."}
{"i":626,"title":"Taking Up Space: Selections from the 2024 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards’ Scholarships and Gold Medal Awards","raw":"This exhibition features a selection of artwork by teens from across the United States who received the highest national recognition in the 2024 Scholastic Art & Writing Awards: the Gold and Silver Portfolio Award, The Herblock Award for Editorial Cartoon, the New York Life Award, and the Gold Medal Award. Presented by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, the Scholastic Awards are the longest-running and most prestigious recognition program for creative teens in the United States. Established in 1923, the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards bring the work of young people to regional and national audiences. Former recipients include artists Andy Warhol, Cy Twombly, Kay WalkingStick, and John Baldessari—all represented in The Met collection—and writers Stephen King, Amanda Gorman, and Joyce Carol Oates. Each work in the exhibition was selected through a rigorous adjudication process, based on originality, skill, and emergence of a personal voice or vision. On view is a collection of artworks by creative and thoughtful young artists, who, with various motivations, felt compelled and empowered to interpret the world around them. They ask: Can you see how I see? Can you feel how I feel? Learn more about the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers and the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards or connect on Instagram @artandwriting #goldkey. For more information contact info@artandwriting.org. The Scholastic Art & Writing Awards are presented by the 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, and are made possible through the generosity of Scholastic Inc., The Destina Foundation, New York Life Foundation, The Maurice R. Robinson Fund, BLICK Art Materials, Command Companies, The Herb Block Foundation, Lindenmeyr Book Publishing Papers, Quad and the Windhover Foundation, Public Funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council, Don’t Hide It, Flaunt It, RBC Foundation USA, Morgan Stanley, HP, Bloomberg Phi"}
{"i":627,"title":"Flight into Egypt: Black Artists and Ancient Egypt, 1876–Now","raw":"Flight into Egypt: Black Artists and Ancient Egypt, 1876–Now examines how Black artists and other cultural figures have engaged with ancient Egypt through visual art, sculpture, literature, music, scholarship, religion, politics, and performance. In a multisensory exploration of nearly 150 years of artistic and cultural production—from the 19th century to the Harlem Renaissance to the Black Arts Movement of the 1960s and 1970s to the present day—the exhibition includes nearly 200 works of art in a wide range of media. Thematic sections featuring works from The Met collection and international loans from public and private collections trace subjects including how Black artists and other agents of culture have employed ancient Egyptian imagery to craft a unifying identity, the contributions of Black scholars to the study of ancient Egypt, and the engagement of modern and contemporary Egyptian artists with ancient Egypt. In a first for The Met, performance will be an integral part of the exhibition itself in the form of a dedicated gallery. Organized in collaboration with MetLiveArts, the “Performance Pyramid” will both present a documentary history of Black performance art incorporating ancient Egyptian themes and host live performances on select days throughout the run of the exhibition. The exhibition is made possible by the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund, the Jane and Robert Carroll Fund, the Ford Foundation, and the Hobson/Lucas Family Foundation."}
{"i":628,"title":"Baseball Cards from the Collection of Jefferson R. Burdick","raw":"An integral part of the Museum’s collection of ephemera, the Burdick collection of baseball cards tells the history of popular printmaking in the United States. In 1947, after having approached A. Hyatt Mayor, the Museum’s curator of prints and photographs, the Syracuse electrician Jefferson R. Burdick (1900–1963) began to donate in large batches his entire collection of more than 30,000 baseball cards—along with another 303,000 trade cards, postcards, and posters—to The Met. The baseball cards collected by Burdick represent the most comprehensive public collection outside of the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. This exhibition features over sixty dating from 1887 and 1955, including the rare Honus Wagner card. Collectively, they illustrate the history of baseball from the dead-ball era, at the turn of the nineteenth century, through the golden age and modern era of the sport. Produced using various types of media—from photography to lithography—the cards feature legends of the game as well as lesser-known players, owners, and teams that have contributed to the history of the game."}
{"i":629,"title":"Paris through the Eyes of Saint-Aubin","raw":"Gabriel de Saint-Aubin (1724–1780) was a prolific and unconventional draftsman whose drawings invite viewers into every corner of the French capital. As an observer and chronicler, he prowled the streets of Paris and recorded the full spectrum of daily life in his sketchbooks, from shop interiors to art auctions and public gardens to rowdy street fairs. Everything he saw was worthy of his attention, wit, and empathy. Saint-Aubin’s body of work is made up almost entirely of tiny, portable, and intricate works on paper. Taken together, these countless sketches give rise to a deeper view of the city as an organic form. Beyond capturing the tangible, they bring to light the pride and aspirations of Paris in the 18th century, a time when sites were being destroyed, rebuilt, and reimagined. Marking the 300th anniversary of his birth, the exhibition features a thematic arrangement demonstrating the breadth of Saint-Aubin’s interests. Examples of his drawings and prints, drawn from The Met’s holdings and local private collections, are complemented by a selection of works by his family and contemporaries, offering a context for his career and highlighting the unique nature of his vision."}
{"i":630,"title":"Siena: The Rise of Painting, 1300–1350","raw":"Siena: The Rise of Painting, 1300–1350 examines an exceptional moment at the dawn of the Italian Renaissance and the pivotal role of Sienese artists—including Duccio, Pietro and Ambrogio Lorenzetti, and Simone Martini—in defining Western painting. In the decades leading up to the catastrophic onset of the plague around 1350, Siena was the site of phenomenal artistic innovation and activity. While Florence is often positioned as the center of the Renaissance, this presentation offers a fresh perspective on the importance of Siena, from Duccio’s profound influence on a new generation of painters to the development of narrative altarpieces and the dissemination of artistic styles beyond Italy. Drawing on the outstanding collections of The Met and the National Gallery, London, as well as rare loans from dozens of other major lenders, the exhibition will include more than 100 works by a remarkable group of Sienese artists. It will feature paintings alongside sculptures, metalwork, and textiles, ranging from large works made for public display to intimate objects created for private devotion. Although none of these artists survived the plague of circa 1350, their achievements had an immeasurable impact on painters and theorists in the centuries that followed. The exhibition is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation, Alice Cary Brown and W.L. Lyons Brown, the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund, and the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund. This exhibition is supported by an indemnity from the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities."}
{"i":631,"title":"Mary Sully: Native Modern","raw":"Mary Sully—born Susan Mabel Deloria on the Standing Rock Reservation in South Dakota—was a little-known, reclusive Yankton Dakota artist who, between the 1920s and 1940s, created highly distinctive work informed by her Native American and settler ancestry. This first solo exhibition of Sully’s groundbreaking production highlights recent Met acquisitions and loans from the Mary Sully Foundation, works that complicate traditional notions of Native American and modern art. Working without patronage, in near obscurity, and largely self-taught, Sully produced intricately designed and vividly colored drawings. They mix meaningful aspects of her Dakota heritage with visual elements observed from other Native nations as well as the aesthetics of urban life. Euro-American celebrities from popular culture, politics, and religion inspired some of her most striking works, which she called “personality prints”— abstract portraits arranged as vertical triptychs. Featuring 25 rarely seen Sully compositions, as well as archival family material and other Native items from The Met collection, Mary Sully: Native Modern offers a fresh and complex lens through which to consider American art and life in the early 20th century. The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation."}
{"i":632,"title":"Mandalas: Mapping the Buddhist Art of Tibet","raw":"A mandala is a diagram of the universe—a map of true reality that in Tibet is used to conceptualize a rapid path to enlightenment. This exhibition explores the imagery of the Himalayan Buddhist devotional art through over 100 paintings, sculptures, textiles, instruments, and an array of ritual objects, mostly dating between the 12th and 15th centuries. This dazzling visual experience provides a roadmap for understanding Himalayan Buddhist worship through early masterworks, juxtaposed with a newly commissioned contemporary installation by Tibetan artist Tenzing Rigdol. The exhibition is made possible by the Placido Arango Fund and Lilly Endowment Inc. The catalogue is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Publications. This superbly illustrated volume explores the significance of Tibetan mandalas from their ancient origins to the present day, providing a contemporary perspective on a centuries-old Buddhist model of the universe."}
{"i":634,"title":"Chinese Painting and Calligraphy: Selections from the Collection","raw":"The Metropolitan Museum of Art acquired its first Chinese painting in 1902. Since then, the Museum has added over two thousand works of painting and calligraphy, building one of the most comprehensive collections in the world. Spanning a millennium and a half of cultural production and a variety of genres, techniques, and styles, The Met collection has become a key resource for the study of Chinese painting and calligraphy. This exhibition presents a rich selection of works from the collection arranged in a largely chronological display."}
{"i":635,"title":"Mexican Prints at the Vanguard","raw":"The rich tradition of printmaking in Mexico—from the eighteenth century to the mid-twentieth century—is explored in this exhibition of works drawn mainly from The Met collection. Among the early works presented are those by Mexico’s best-known printmaker, José Guadalupe Posada, whose depictions of skeletons engaged in different activities helped establish a global identity for Mexican art. Following the Mexican Revolution (1910–1920), printmaking proved to be the ideal medium for artists wanting to address social and political concerns and voice resistance to the rise of fascism around the world. Artists also turned to printmaking to reproduce Mexican murals from the 1920s and to create exhibition posters, prints for the popular press, and portfolios celebrating Mexican dress and customs. Featuring over 130 works, including woodcuts, lithographs, and screen prints, by artists such as Posada, Diego Rivera, José Clemente Orozco, and Leopoldo Méndez, the exhibition explores how prints were central to the artistic identity and practice in Mexico and highlights their effectiveness in addressing social and political issues, a role of the graphic arts that continues today. The bulk of The Met’s expansive collection came through the French-born artist Jean Charlot, whose association with the Museum began in the late 1920s. Charlot donated many of his own prints and works by other artists to The Met, and in the mid-1940s acted on behalf of the Museum to acquire prints in Mexico. The collection demonstrates The Met’s early interest in Mexican art and culture at a time when there was growing international interest in the subject. This exhibition is accompanied by an issue of The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin. The Bulletin is made possible in part by Allston Chapman and The Met Americas Council."}
{"i":636,"title":"Art Work: Artists Working at The Met","raw":"Since 1935, staff members working as a part of The Met community, many of whom are accomplished artists, have shared their creative contributions with each other on a regular basis. We are delighted to open this presentation of their work to the public. The wide range of artistic expression—from drawing, painting, and photography to sculpture and digital media—corresponds to an equally expansive representation of departments throughout the institution, including guards, educators, technicians, librarians, designers, engineers, conservators, volunteers, registrars, and many others. Please join us in celebrating their talent, their vision, and their accomplishments."}
{"i":637,"title":"Inspiring Design: The Book Collection of Tiffany & Co.'s Edward C. Moore","raw":"Edward C Moore (1827–1891) was the head of silver design and manufacturing for Tiffany & Co. from the mid-nineteenth century until his death in 1891. Throughout his career, he amassed a large collection of art objects from diverse cultures to educate and inspire the firm’s silver design work. This collection and the silverwork it inspired is the subject of the current exhibition, Collecting Inspiration: Edward C. Moore at Tiffany & Co., which is on view in the special exhibition galleries nearby. Coincident with his art collecting, Moore amassed an impressive library. In addition to over two thousand objects, his estate donated a library of more than 350 titles—roughly five hundred volumes in total—to The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The contents of the library reflect his belief that design education and inspiration could come from every medium. His library and collected objects provided the staff at Tiffany access to works of art, cultures, and ideas far beyond the temporal and geographic boundaries of New York City. His interests were wide ranging and his library covers topics related to his collecting, as well as architecture and archeology, art education, home decoration and furniture, lace and textiles, book binding, illuminated manuscripts, and color theory. The books also evince a deep interest in the process of production of both ceramics and glass. He also subscribed to contemporary periodicals and journals that demonstrate he was knowledgeable about and engaged in the exhibitions at the nineteenth-century world’s fairs in Europe and America. The objects on display will be available for consultation in our Reading Room at the conclusion of the exhibition. Information on using the library is here."}
{"i":638,"title":"The Roof Garden Commission: Petrit Halilaj, Abetare","raw":"The Roof Garden may close on short notice due to extreme heat or storms. Kosovar artist Petrit Halilaj (born 1986, Kostërc, former Yugoslavia) has been commissioned to create a site-specific installation for the Museum’s Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Roof Garden. For the artist's first major project in the United States, Halilaj has transformed The Met Roof with a sprawling sculptural installation. Halilaj's work is deeply connected to the recent history of his native country, Kosovo, and the consequences of cultural and political tensions in the region. After a formative period in Italy, where he studied art at the Accademia di Brera in Milan, he moved to Berlin in 2008, where he still lives and works. His projects encompass a variety of media, including sculpture, drawing, poetry, and performance. and James E. Burke Fund, Cynthia Hazen Polsky and Leon B. Polsky, and the Edward John & Patricia Rosenwald Foundation."}
{"i":639,"title":"Collecting Inspiration: Edward C. Moore at Tiffany & Co.","raw":"Edward C. Moore (1827–1891)—the creative force who led Tiffany & Co. to unparalleled originality and success during the second half of the 19th century—amassed a vast collection of decorative arts of exceptional quality and in various media, from Greek and Roman glass and Japanese baskets to metalwork from the Islamic world. These objects were a source of inspiration for Moore, a noted silversmith in his own right, and the designers he supervised. The exhibition Collecting Inspiration: Edward C. Moore at Tiffany & Co. will feature more than 180 extraordinary examples from Moore's personal collection, which was donated to the Museum, alongside 70 magnificent silver objects designed and created at Tiffany & Co. under his direction. Drawn primarily from the holdings of The Met, the display will also include seldom seen examples from a dozen private and public lenders. A defining figure in the history of American silver, Moore played a pivotal role in shaping the legendary Tiffany design aesthetic and the evolution of The Met’s collection. The catalogue is made possible by the William Cullen Bryant Fellows of The Metropolitan Museum of Art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here This illuminating publication is the first to examine the pioneering designer and prolific collector who led Tiffany & Co. to creative and commercial success."}
{"i":640,"title":"P. S. Art 2024: Celebrating the Creative Spirit of New York City Kids","raw":"P. S. Art is an annual celebration of achievement in the arts in New York City public schools. This year marks the twenty-second anniversary of the exhibition and the seventeenth year it has been hosted at The Met. This juried exhibition of 126 works of art by talented young artists showcases the creativity of prekindergarten through grade 12 students from all five boroughs, including students from District 75, a citywide district serving students with disabilities. The exhibition consists of collages, drawings, mixed-media works, paintings, photographs, prints, and sculpture. Each work of art demonstrates personal expression, imaginative use of media, the results of close observation, and an understanding of artistic processes. Dedicated art teachers support students’ creativity and help them look closely in order to respond to their worlds through art making. As students take art classes from one year to the next, they increase their understanding of art, sharpen their skills, and learn to harness their imaginations for artistic expression. This exhibition celebrates the students’ journeys and discoveries from early childhood to young adulthood. Moreover, the text accompanying all student artwork is evidence of the reflective nature of art making. A panel of arts specialists from New York City Public Schools and Studio in a School selected 228 semifinalists from nearly 1,300 submissions. A jury of distinguished members of the New York City arts community, including staff of The Met, selected the works on view. New York City Public Schools (NYCPS) would like to thank The Metropolitan Museum of Art for generously mounting, hosting, and helping select works for this exhibition in the Ruth and Harold D. Uris Center for Education. NYCPS also gratefully acknowledges Studio in a School NYC for its sponsorship and substantial role in the coordination of P. S. Art 2024."}
{"i":641,"title":"Lineages: Korean Art at The Met","raw":"In celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of The Met’s Arts of Korea gallery, Lineages: Korean Art at The Met showcases highlights of the Museum’s collection paired with important international loans of Korean modern and contemporary art. This juxtaposition of historic and contemporary artworks—from twelfth- and thirteenth-century celadons to futuristic cyborg sculptures made in the 2000s—displays the history of Korean art in broad strokes through four intertwined themes—lines, people, places, and things. Featuring thirty objects, this exhibition fosters a dialogue of ideas that have resonated across time and bound artists together. Rotation 1: November 6, 2023–December 19, 2023 Rotation 2: December 21, 2023–February 13, 2024 Rotation 3: February 15–May 14, 2024 Rotation 4: May 16–October 20, 2024 This exhibition is accompanied by an issue of The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin. The exhibition and Bulletin are made possible by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, The Republic of Korea (MCST)."}
{"i":642,"title":"The African Origin of Civilization","raw":"Scholars today recognize Africa as the source of our common ancestry. But in 1974, Senegalese scholar and humanist Cheikh Anta Diop shocked and challenged historians by asserting the influence of ancient African civilizations in his groundbreaking book The African Origin of Civilization: Myth or Reality. This exhibition pays homage to Diop by presenting masterpieces from the Museum’s collections from west and central Africa alongside art from ancient Egypt for the first time in The Met’s history. Through twenty-one pairings of works from different African cultures and eras, this exhibition provides a rare opportunity to appreciate the extraordinary creativity of the continent across five millennia, revealing unexpected parallels and contrasts. Although there was no contact between their creators, the works share deep and underrecognized histories. The African Origin of Civilization will remain on view while The Met’s galleries of Sub-Saharan African Art are closed for the complete renovation of the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing. The re-envisioned wing is expected to reopen in 2024, and will feature three distinct suites of galleries for Sub-Saharan African Art, Ancient American Art, and Oceanic Art. See more works featured as part of The African Origin of Civilization initiative in other permanent collection galleries including: European Paintings (Gallery 601), Islamic Art (Galleries 455, 456), Medieval Art (Gallery 304), The American Wing (Gallery 753) and, The Robert Lehman Collection (Galleries 957, 964)."}
{"i":643,"title":"Human/Nature: Selections from the Department of Drawings and Prints","raw":"The Department of Drawings and Prints boasts more than one million drawings, prints, and illustrated books made in Europe and the Americas from around 1400 to the present day. Because of their number and sensitivity to light, the works can only be exhibited for a limited period and are usually housed in on-site storage facilities. To highlight the vast range of works on paper, the department organizes four rotations a year in the Robert Wood Johnson, Jr. Gallery. Each installation is the product of a collaboration among curators and consists of up to 100 objects grouped by artist, technique, style, period, or subject. Featuring works on paper from the sixteenth to the twenty-first century, this rotation traces artists’ perceptions of human society, the natural world, and interactions between the two. Human nature is examined through a group of Netherlandish prints illustrating proverbs, while notions of family and artistic kinship frame a selection of works by seventeenth-century French printmaker Claudine Bouzonnet Stella. The complex relationship between animal and human qualities is explored via Eugène Delacroix’s depictions of lions. Other works on view reveal humans acting on their environments, as in representations of building activities in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Italy. Natural history drawings of shells, flowers, and insects, as well as cut-paper collages of plant life, show how artists both carefully studied nature and attempted to control or possess it. Finally, the assertion of nature and its impact on humanity is registered by groupings of seascapes and prints depicting flooding in the United States over the past two hundred years."}
{"i":644,"title":"Don't Forget to Call Your Mother","raw":"At a time when photographs are primarily shared and saved digitally, many artists are returning to the physicality of snapshots in an album or pictures in an archive as a source of inspiration. Drawing its title, Don’t Forget to Call Your Mother, from a photograph by Italian provocateur Maurizio Cattelan, the exhibition consists of works in The Met collection from the 1970s to today that reflect upon the complicated feelings of nostalgia and sentimentality that these objects conjure, while underlining the power of the found object. Among the featured artists is Sadie Barnette, for whom photographs provide a portal to illuminate the forgotten history of the first Black-owned gay bar in San Francisco and her own father’s life as her 2022 work Photo Bar powerfully illustrates. Like Barnette, many of the artists in the exhibition seek to fortify the legacy of family histories, to emphasize the importance of intergenerational relationships, and to consider the ways in which knowledge and respect for the past can inform our current moment. Some artists such as Sophie Calle and Larry Sultan explore their own narratives to reveal the construction of desire, while others including Taryn Simon and Hank Willis Thomas examine histories that have shaped cultural and political dialogue. For some, including Darrel Ellis who utilized family pictures to negotiate the trauma of police violence, the personal is political. Deploying various strategies, these artists consider how a collection of images—like a talisman or an altarpiece—build relationships across time and can transform our understanding of the present."}
{"i":645,"title":"Sleeping Beauties: Reawakening Fashion","raw":"You must join the virtual queue when you arrive. We may not admit visitors near the end of the day. Sleeping Beauties is an immersive exhibition with sensory experiences including video animations, soundscapes, and smells. Visitors travel in a single path in one direction. Special Access for Members Priority access in the virtual queue and Weekend Member Mornings 9–10 am every Saturday and Sunday The Costume Institute’s spring 2024 exhibition, Sleeping Beauties: Reawakening Fashion, reactivates the sensory capacities of masterworks in the Museum’s collection through first-hand research, conservation analysis, and diverse technologies—from cutting-edge tools of artificial intelligence and computer-generated imagery to traditional formats of x-rays, video animation, light projection, and soundscapes. When an item of clothing enters the Costume Institute collection, its status is changed forever. What was once a vital part of a person’s life is now a motionless ‘artwork’ that can no longer be worn or heard, touched, or smelled. This exhibition reanimates these objects, helping us experience them as they were originally intended—with vibrancy, dynamism, and life."}
{"i":646,"title":"The Real Thing: Unpackaging Product Photography","raw":"The photographs in this exhibition do not depict rare or special things. They show toothpaste, tombstones, and hats. But these familiar trappings of everyday life will be, at times, unrecognizable—so altered by the camera as to constitute something entirely new. Enticing consumers with increasingly experimental approaches to the still life genre, the photographs featured transform everyday objects into covetable commodities. The camera abstracts them from functional use, at times distorting them through dizzying perspectives and modulations of scale. Spanning the first century of photographic advertising, the exhibition will illustrate how commercial camerawork contributed to the visual language of modernism, suggesting new links between the promotional strategies of vernacular studios and the tactics of the interwar avant-garde. Corporate commissions by celebrated innovators, including Paul Outerbridge, August Sander, and Piet Zwart, will appear alongside obscure catalogues and trade publications, united by a common cause: to snatch the ordinary out of context, and sell it back at full price. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc."}
{"i":647,"title":"The Harlem Renaissance and Transatlantic Modernism","raw":"The groundbreaking exhibition The Harlem Renaissance and Transatlantic Modernism explores the comprehensive and far-reaching ways in which Black artists portrayed everyday modern life. Through some 160 works of painting, sculpture, photography, film, and ephemera, explore the new Black cities that took shape in the 1920s–40s in New York City’s Harlem and nationwide in the early decades of the Great Migration, when millions of African Americans began to move away from the segregated rural South. The first art museum survey of the subject in New York City since 1987, the exhibition establishes the Harlem Renaissance and its radically new development of the modern Black subject as central to the development of international modern art. Featured artists include Charles Alston, Aaron Douglas, Meta Warrick Fuller, William H. Johnson, Archibald Motley, Winold Reiss, Augusta Savage, James Van Der Zee, and Laura Wheeler Waring. These artists are shown in direct juxtaposition with portrayals of international African diasporan subjects by European counterparts ranging from Henri Matisse, Edvard Munch, and Pablo Picasso to Germaine Casse, Jacob Epstein, and Ronald Moody. A significant percentage of the paintings, sculpture, and works on paper on view in the exhibition come from the extensive collections of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), including Clark Atlanta University Art Museum, Fisk University Galleries, Hampton University Art Museum, and Howard University Gallery of Art. Other major lenders include the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the National Portrait Gallery, with pending loans from the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. The exhibition includes loans from significant private collections and major European lenders. To access the booklet of all large-print exhibition text, click here."}
{"i":648,"title":"New York Art Worlds, 1870–1890","raw":"This exhibition explores aspects of the lived experience of being an artist in New York City during the 1870s and 1880s, an era of rapid socio-economic change. Drawing largely from the American Wing’s varied collections, the display investigates the vibrant cosmopolitan and modern art world that emerged in the city during the post-Civil War years, laying the groundwork for today’s international cultural capital. Some fifty paintings, sculptures, works on paper, and decorative objects highlight late nineteenth-century aesthetic innovations and trends, as well as leading American artists’ roles as tastemakers, organizers, exhibitors, and collaborators. Among those represented are Cecilia Beaux, Thomas Eakins, Winslow Homer, Charles Ethan Porter, Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Louis Comfort Tiffany, and Candace Wheeler. The exhibition is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund."}
{"i":649,"title":"Emulating Books: Book Objects from the Lynn and Bruce Heckman Gift","raw":"Creating objects in book form has been an artistic practice for a millennium. These personal, inventive objects are ubiquitous in many cultures. They have been made for various purposes by people from all walks of life and skill levels. Whether precious or plain, useful or symbolic, they all benefit from their connection to the book. For example, the book-style relic of the ship Eurydice, which sank in 1878, killing over 300 sailors, was carved from a piece of the ship, and serves as an emblem documenting the history of the event, as well as a memorial book honoring the dead. An object made in the form of a book translates the meaning of the type of book it emulates, therefore imbuing the object with the emotional, material, or spiritual values of the original or imagined book. These objects can express feelings of love, enlightenment, humor and faith, and sometimes the mere experience of holding a book object, as with a treasured tome, can comfort its owner, as in the case of the solid wood Holy Bible which will never open, but comforts just the same. As a result of the book’s power, traditions of making specific types of book objects, such as book safes and game boards, have evolved and flourished. Examples of these traditions, made during the eighteenth to twentieth centuries can be seen in this exhibition. The Heckman collection is a gift to the Thomas J. Watson Library from Lynn Geringer Heckman, who began collecting objects in book form with her late husband Bruce Heckman in 1989, eventually amassing over 1,000 works. The Watson gift is a select group chosen from the larger collection. The objects on display will be available for consultation in our Reading Room at the conclusion of the exhibition. Information on using the library is here."}
{"i":650,"title":"Anxiety and Hope in Japanese Art","raw":"Drawn largely from The Met’s renowned collection of Japanese art, this exhibition explores the twin themes of anxiety and hope, with a focus on the human stories in and around art and art making. The exhibition begins with sacred images from early Japan that speak to concerns about death, dying, and the afterlife or that were created in response to other uncertainties, such as war and natural disaster. The presentation then proceeds chronologically, highlighting medieval Buddhist images of paradises and hells, Zen responses to life and death, depictions of war and pilgrimage, and the role of protective and hopeful images in everyday life. In the final galleries, the exhibition’s underlying themes are explored through a selection of modern woodblock prints, garments, and photographs. Rotation 1: April 8–August 13, 2023 Rotation 2: August 26–November 26, 2023 Rotation 3: December 16, 2023–April 14, 2024 Rotation 4: April 27–July 14, 2024 The exhibition is made possible by The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Foundation Fund."}
{"i":651,"title":"Hidden Faces: Covered Portraits of the Renaissance","raw":"This exhibition is the first to examine an intriguing but largely unknown side—in the literal sense—of Renaissance painting: multisided portraits in which the sitter’s likeness was concealed by a hinged or sliding cover, within a box, or by a dual-faced format. The covers and reverses of these small, private portraits were adorned with puzzlelike emblems, epigrams, allegories, and mythologies that celebrated the sitter’s character, and they represent some of the most inventive and unique secular imagery of the Renaissance. The viewer had to decode the meaning of the symbolic portrait before lifting, sliding, or turning the image over to unmask the face below. This widespread tradition in Italy and Northern Europe during the 15th and 16th centuries will be explored through approximately 60 double-sided and covered portraits from The Met collection and other American and European institutions, including the reunion of several portraits and their covers that had been split and made part of separate collections. Painted by artists such as Hans Memling, Lucas Cranach, Lorenzo Lotto, and Titian, the works range from portraits intended as portable propaganda to those designed to conceal a lover's identity. These varied three-dimensional, hand-held ensembles shed significant light upon the intimate and personal nature of portraits designed as interactive objects. The exhibition is made possible by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, the Robert Lehman Foundation, and the Mellon Foundation. The curatorial effort was...akin to a detective story, and as viewers we are able to enjoy the great reveal at the end."}