=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: From clapping hands and tapping feet to beatboxing and whistling, the human body is a musical instrument. Musical instruments, in turn, often draw their form and decoration from our bodies. Around the world and across time, instruments emerge as powerful vehicles that represent our voices, actions, and identity not only in music but throughout the visual arts, literature, religion, pop culture, and mythology. Musical Bodies is the first major exhibition to explore the relationship between musical instruments and the body by bringing together some 130 instruments, paintings, sculptures, drawings, and more to illuminate how we express who we are, what we value, and what we believe. With works from The Met collection and institutions and collectors around the world, the exhibition explores 4,000 years of art and music history, from ancient Egyptian rattles and musical masterpieces by Titian and Degas to instrument-inspired apparel and one of Prince’s most notable guitars. Musical Bodies will resonate with visitors of all ages, whether you are a musician, a devoted listener, or simply curious about human expression. The exhibition is made possible by Barbara Tober, the Diane W. and James E. Burke Fund, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, and the Gail and Parker Gilbert Fund. The catalogue is made possible by the Mary C. and James W. Fosburgh Publications Fund.
  →  Instruments as sculptural and bodily objects from the Met's collection.

RAW: The Costume Institute’s spring 2026 exhibition explores depictions of the dressed body across The Met’s vast collection, pairing garments with artworks to reveal the inherent relationship between clothing and the body. Focusing primarily on Western art from prehistory to the present, Costume Art presents connections between garments from The Costume Institute and objects from the Museum’s other collecting areas. Pairings between fashions and artworks will present a spectrum of connections and experiences: from the formal to the conceptual, the aesthetic to the political, the individual to the universal, the illustrative to the symbolic, and the playful to the profound. These pairings are organized into a series of thematic body types that reflect their pervasiveness and endurance through time and cultures. Costume Art is the inaugural exhibition in the new, nearly 12,000-square-foot galleries adjacent to the Great Hall. This space will display The Costume Institute’s annual spring show and, at times, shows from the Museum’s other curatorial departments, including those that explore the intersection of fashion and art. To access a large-print version of the exhibition text, click here
  →  Costume Institute spring show. Inaugurates new fashion galleries.

RAW: In co-organization with the Fondation Giacometti, this presentation brings together for the first time at The Met the work of Alberto Giacometti (1901–1966) in one of New York's most iconic spaces. The installation of 14 works in bronze and plaster, emblematic pieces from the collection of the Fondation Giacometti in Paris together with three from The Met collection, places the work of one of the great sculptors of the 20th century in dialogue with the ancient civilization that strongly influenced his art and his practice. Throughout his career, Giacometti showed a particular fascination for the art of ancient Egypt. The Egyptian statues he saw in Italy as a young artist made a lasting impression on his visual repertoire, and after he moved to Paris, he regularly visited the Egyptian galleries of the Louvre. His formal dialogue with Egypt can be seen in sketches of walking figures in profile, which were later realized in such works as Walking Woman (I) (1932). At The Met, this elegant figure will be installed in the entrance hall of the Temple of Dendur. The Temple of Dendur was completed in 10 BCE as a commission by Caesar Augustus shortly after he became emperor of Rome. Gifted from Egypt to the United States in 1965, it has been one of the most beloved works of art at The Met since it opened to the public in 1978. In ancient Egypt, the terrace before the temple functioned as an open meeting place between the deity and larger crowds. At The Met, Giacometti's figures will stand alone or in groups on the temple platform—a presentation that echoes the artist's own compositions of figures as well as the life around the temple. The exhibition is made possible by the Kate W. Cassidy Foundation.
  →  Giacometti's elongated figures alongside the Egyptian temple.

RAW: The word Orient is derived from the Latin Oriens, which means the direction of the rising sun—the east. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy explores notions of “the East” in the 19th century, when globalism, shaped by colonialism and imperialism, fueled unprecedented encounters, connections, and exchanges in Europe and the Middle East. “Hard power” mingled with “soft power,” as accelerated travel, rapid technological change, and shifting geopolitics hastened artistic exchange between distant regions and different cultures. Beginning with Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt in 1798 and culminating in the paintings of Ottoman renaissance man Osman Hamdi Bey, this exhibition tells the story of how Islamic works of art made their way to European dealers, collectors, international expositions, and museums, introducing a new visual language to artists, architects, and designers. Deep admiration for the sophisticated techniques and visual language of Islamic art led Owen Jones and other influential figures to transform architecture and design in Europe and America. Artists such as Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Eugène Delacroix, and Jean-Léon Gérôme visited lands and people across the Mediterranean or imagined them from afar. They sometimes depicted what they saw and at other times conjured distant places through memory and imagination, often using Islamic objects to stage their paintings. Orientalism: Between Fact and Fantasy is the first exhibition at The Met to explore Orientalism as its central focus, presenting not only easel paintings but also drawings, photographs, illustrated books, architecture, arms and armor, textiles, garments, glassware, ceramics, and metalwork. Highlighting The Met collection, it features approximately 180 objects from 12 Met departments along with rarely seen loans from the U.S. and abroad. Displayed across four galleries that straddle the departments of European Paintings and Islamic Art, the presentation invites visitors to approach the exhibit
  →  Nineteenth-century European depictions of the Middle East and North Africa.

RAW: Renaissance sculpture in Florence was forever changed around 1440 when Luca della Robbia created a secret formula for making glazed terracotta reliefs and statuary. Luca and his heirs, Andrea and Giovanni, daringly perfected these techniques. Over the next century, the family workshop transformed local clay and colored glazes into peerless sculptures that gleamed with light. Praised during the Renaissance as “almost eternal,” today Della Robbia sculptures are often as vibrantly luminous as when they emerged from the kiln five hundred years ago. The Met has the largest, most significant collection of Della Robbia glazed terracottas in America. Most have remained in storage for decades. For the first time, Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met features in a single gallery 12 of the Museum’s masterworks by three generations of the Della Robbia family. Rescued from storage, revived through conservation, and reattributed through fresh research, these sculptures are shown with two important loans from a private collector. Another two works are exciting sculptures by Giovanni della Robbia from the Dick Wolf Collection that complement existing works in the Museum’s collection—one is a promised gift and the other, the Mystic Mandorla lunette, recently was gifted to the Museum. Together, the exhibited sculptures span monumental reliefs composed of many interlocking pieces to small statuettes, signaling the scope of the Della Robbias’ art. Collaboration within the Della Robbia workshop fostered innovation. Rediscovering Della Robbia at The Met itself results from a collaborative exchange among curators, conservators, and digital specialists. Highlights include the exhibition’s centerpiece featuring 33 newly conserved interlocking pieces of a 10-foot-tall altarpiece that has been off view for 70 years. These are shown alongside a large, animated virtual reconstruction that uses 3D-scanning technology to suggest how the entire altar originally was assembled. Rediscovering Della
  →  Glazed terracotta from the Della Robbia workshop.

RAW: This special installation marks the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the founding document of the United States of America. Featured works from across The Met offer a wide view of the roots, course, and aftermath of the Revolutionary War (1775–1783)—from early conflicts between colonists and Indigenous peoples to George Washington’s voluntary retirement, in 1797, from his two-term presidency. Rarely seen prints reveal the transatlantic circulation of news about the struggle for independence during a fractious political period. This window into the era’s print culture highlights the global dimensions of the rebellion, the contested ideas about liberty that shaped it, and its consequential outcomes. Also on view are American and European works of art that depict a range of significant individuals. These include the Wampanoag chief Metacomet, whose battles with early colonists laid the groundwork for revolution; the African American poet Phillis Wheatley, who raised her voice against an expansive tyranny in her call for emancipation; patriots and presidents such as Paul Revere and George Washington; the Mohawk leader Thayendanegea, who allied with the British in an effort to retain Indigenous sovereignty; and iconic contributors to the Declaration of Independence John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson. Together, these artworks acknowledge multiple complex and intertwined histories that continue to resonate in the United States and beyond, some two and half centuries later. This special installation is made possible by Kimba Wood and Frank Richardson.
  →  Prints and visual material around revolutionary upheaval.

RAW: This special installation, which features some of The Met’s most iconic European paintings, examines how human and nonhuman histories are fundamentally intertwined—and how this fact has been understood over time. Discover how artists such as Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Nicolas Poussin explored humanity’s complex relationship with nature. The paintings on view reveal that people cannot exist outside of natural ecosystems but are profoundly interdependent with the rest of the natural world. Dating from around 1525 to 1775, these paintings trace a shift in European representations of nature from expressions of embeddedness toward assertions of dominance, showing how our conceptions of nature are themselves not “natural” but instead are culturally constructed. The artists’ depictions shape viewers’ experiences of the environments they portray. Overlapping themes include ancient myths that personify natural forces; the relationship between art and science through direct observation of nature; and idealizations of agricultural labor that upheld class, gender, and colonial power structures. As physical objects, paintings alter natural resources like flax, wood, and rare minerals; in turn, these materials continue to have lives of their own. This special installation is made possible by the Sherman Fairchild Foundation.
  →  Painting through landscape, environment and material relations.

RAW: Most objects are displayed to show their “best” angle meant to impress, sometimes hiding intriguing details. Flip Sides: Seeing Korean Art Anew invites close looking and offers multiple views of the inside, reverse, or hard-to-see aspects of objects. Bringing together approximately 50 objects from The Met collection, with more than half displayed for the first time, this exhibition, with a rotation, shows treasured Korean traditions. By presenting them in ways that give us a fuller picture into each object’s unique form, Flip Sides provides insight into the construction and function of works in metal, wood, ceramic, textiles, and lacquer. A Buddhist sculpture that held offerings inside, a porcelain jar of striking openwork that conceals an inner chamber, a bronze mirror with a delicately incised image, and a king’s lacquer letter box with linings featuring impressive calligraphy are among the featured objects in Flip Sides. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: March 16–October 18, 2026 Rotation 2: October 31, 2026–May 31, 2027 The exhibition is made possible by The Kun-Hee Lee Fund for Korean Art.
  →  Korean objects revealing their reverse or hard-to-see aspects.

RAW: From the earliest hand-built figurines rooted in spiritual beliefs to the vibrant works that define today’s contemporary ceramic art scene, Japanese pottery reflects exceptional creativity and a refined sense of beauty. Its distinctiveness arises from the ingenuity and mastery of the potters, as well as the wide range of wares that have long supported daily life. This exhibition explores Japan’s extensive and rich history of ceramic art through approximately 350 extraordinary works presented in themes that offer fresh perspectives on the diverse forms and functions, from everyday tableware to vessels created for tea masters and elite households to modern sculptural compositions. Japan’s earliest pottery dates back more than 12,000 years, when makers shaped and fired clay vessels for cooking and storage—objects that bear the traces of these early potters’ hands. Expertise transmitted from China and Korea in medieval times facilitated the development of new Japanese techniques and wares. Over time, the reverence for prized ceramics led to finding beauty even through damage. Japanese artisans developed kintsugi, the art of repairing broken ceramics with gold lacquer, restoring the damaged object’s function while making it even more precious and valuable. Japanese cuisine and dining aesthetics inspired vessels designed to harmonize with the color and texture of food. Many porcelains from the Edo period (1615–1868) are embellished with motifs drawn from the natural world or symbols of happiness, longevity, and good fortune. Featuring refined ceramics and other artworks from the Museum’s Harry G. C. Packard Collection, this exhibition celebrates the 50th anniversary of this landmark acquisition that established the foundation of The Met’s Japanese art holdings. By placing ceramics in dialogue with related art forms—including lacquers, textiles, paintings, and woodblock prints—the display inspires curiosity about the multiverse of Japanese ceramics and its broader cultural
  →  Japanese ceramic traditions across technique, glaze and form.

RAW: Artists and artisans have been intrigued and inspired by the topic of death and visions of life thereafter for millennia. Afterlives: Contemporary Art in the Byzantine Crypt brings together modern-day works that reckon with death and visualize the afterlife and Byzantine Egyptian funerary art and artifacts in part of the Mary and Michael Jaharis Galleries known as the Byzantine Crypt (Gallery 302). The intimate and enchanting gallery with exposed brick walls and arched portals was unveiled in the year 2000 after a renovation that reclaimed the space beneath the Museum’s Grand Staircase. In this transhistorical presentation, the Byzantine Crypt’s religious and secular jewelry, textiles, ivory objects, vessels, and architectural sculpture from Early Christian and Coptic monastic sites are complemented and enriched by contemporary sculptures, works on paper, and installations from the 1960s to present day that similarly serve as memorials, reliquaries, and tokens to ward off evil. As part of the exhibition, Adrian Piper’s editioned work Everything #4 invites viewers to contemplate its otherworldly statement and their reflection in a variety of contexts. It will be installed in the heart of the Byzantine Crypt and five other spaces across The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters, listed below. The exhibition is made possible by The Jaharis Family Foundation.
  →  Contemporary work in the Byzantine galleries.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar marks time through a twelve-year cycle, each year represented by the animals of the Chinese zodiac: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. First associated with the Chinese calendar in the third century BCE and firmly established by the first century CE, these symbolic creatures are believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that animal’s year. February 17, 2026, marks the beginning of the Year of the Horse, a creature symbolizing power, strength, and vitality. Celebrating the Year of the Horse brings together works from The Met collection to explore the horse’s enduring nature and vital place in Chinese civilization. Domesticated in prehistoric times, this animal has shaped nearly every facet of life—from agriculture and transportation to trade, warfare, sport, and entertainment. In ancient China, horse-drawn chariots transported military commanders and the social elite, while in the Tang dynasty (618–907), tall and robust horses came to embody the strength of the state and cosmopolitan spirit of the empire. In Chinese popular culture, horses are among the most celebrated animals, and in the spiritual realm they serve as noble mounts for divine guardians believed to bring joy, protection, and prosperity to the household. This presentation, featuring a range of expressive works in ceramics, glass, jade, and metal, and woodblock prints, illuminates these roles while celebrating the horse’s power, vitality, and spirit.
  →  Asian works for the lunar new year.

RAW: In 1668, King Louis XIV of France commissioned the Paris-based Savonnerie manufactory to create the largest carpet ever woven. Composed of 92 individual pieces, the carpet was intended to cover the full span of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre, measuring 440 meters, six times the length of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. Not only was it a bold and unprecedented undertaking, but a unique chapter in the history of art. The first ever exhibition about the Savonnerie in the United States, A King’s Carpet sheds new light on The Met’s three carpets made as part of this ambitious scheme. Held in the iconic Wrightsman Galleries, it will explore the tumultuous history of these Baroque masterpieces from their conception and the harsh realities of their production to their dispersal after the French Revolution. A project of unheard-of scale, the weaving of the 92 carpets necessitated the establishment of massive workshops and an expendable workforce of orphans and adolescents with sharp eyesight and nimble fingers. Woven over 20 years, the carpets were never rolled out in the space for which they were intended, Louis XIV having turned his attention away from the Louvre to Versailles. During the Revolution, many were stripped of their royal emblems or sold, some eventually finding new homes with prominent American collectors such as J. P. Morgan and Alva Vanderbilt. This exhibition will present four complete carpets along with a selection of fragments, attesting to the scheme’s segmentation and dispersal. In addition, visitors will be able to observe textile conservators at work in an in-gallery temporary conservation studio as they repair and strengthen one of these monumental textiles.
  →  Savonnerie carpets and French court display.

RAW: Sublime symbols of changing weather, clouds have long been a source of fascination for artists and scientists alike. In the early 1800s, landscape painters used clouds as visual proof of their ability to capture the fleeting effects of nature in sketches made outdoors, or en plein air, while meteorologists began to study and, for the first time, classify clouds. Beginning in the 1830s, photography promised to capture the sky with unprecedented immediacy and detail, yet early technical limitations fell short of that promise. Photographers responded by painting in skies or manually combining negatives, until chemical and optical advances at the start of the 20th century made possible cloudscape photographs that rivaled paintings. Chasing Clouds follows the remarkable story of how the sky was represented during this period, tracing the depiction of clouds in works that balanced changing artistic conventions with scientific discoveries and new technologies. Opening with oil sketches from the start of the 19th century, and including paintings, drawings, and photographs from the following decades, it comes full circle in the 1920s with American photographer Alfred Stieglitz’s Equivalents, a series of cloud studies that reconciles poetic feeling and naturalistic depiction. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Cloud studies across painting, drawing and photography.

RAW: Multidisciplinary artist David Hartt (Canadian, born 1967) transforms John Vanderlyn's immersive historical painting, Panoramic View of the Palace and Gardens of Versailles (1818–19), into a dynamic contemporary installation, offering viewers the opportunity to explore questions of place and perspective. Vanderlyn’s highly detailed rendering of Versailles—among the largest surviving panoramas in the United States—is activated by Hartt’s architectural intervention, bringing past and present into conversation. For this site-specific commission—consisting of two Direct View LED screens and echoing imagery from the panorama itself—Hartt draws on direct documentation of Versailles, the cinematic language of French New Wave Cinema, and photographs of the palace grounds by Eugene Atget to reshape the experience of The Met’s circular gallery space housing the work. Filmed at locations from Versailles to the Boulevard Périphérique and throughout the center of Paris, Peripheries explores the constant reinvention of the French capital. Hartt’s installation reconfigures movement and angles of vision, augmented through an original score by composer and musician Jeff Parker. Visitors are visually lured away from established centers within the city toward the margins—or the “peripheries”—where alternative perspectives and histories are often relegated. By engaging directly with Vanderlyn's panorama, Hartt has created a space to reconsider not only the historical painting itself but also examine ideas of representation and cultural memory within a living environment. The exhibition is made possible by Jan and Warren Adelson in honor of Eugénie Prendergast, and The Modern Circle.
  →  Architecture, migration and the edges of cities.

RAW: The Parade is an epic cycle of 63 charcoal, pencil, and ink drawings conceived by Si Lewen (1918–2016) in the aftermath of World War II. The work unfolds a visual narrative on war, memory, and the human condition that is informed by the artist's extraordinary life. Born in Poland to Jewish parents and raised in Germany, Lewen fled Nazi persecution with his family in 1933 before immigrating to the United States. While serving in the U.S. Army as one of the Ritchie Boys, a specialized unit of German-speaking soldiers, Lewen arrived at the Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation in 1945. The Parade is rooted in the artist’s experience of these events as well as his coming of age during the tumultuous years when, as he reflected later, the parades after World War I gave way to the death marches of World War II. Experienced together as a sequence, the drawings carry viewers from military pageantry to conflict, devastation, and mourning through the cumulative force of their imagery. The power of The Parade lies not only in its historical origins but in its ability to speak across generations with urgency, asking viewers to confront the persistent cycles of violence that continue to shape our world. The exhibition's title, There Are No Words, is inspired by Lewen's own description of the format of The Parade as a wordless novel in which he explained: "there are no words . . . just the picture itself is the narrative." At the same time, the title reflects his conviction that the horrors of war ultimately defy language and description.
  →  Wordless picture sequence on war.

RAW: Lee Krasner (1908–1984) and Jackson Pollock (1912–1956) met as emerging artists in New York in the winter of 1941. They married in 1945 and moved to Springs, Long Island, where they remained entwined personally, artistically, and professionally until Pollock’s untimely death. While Pollock’s reputation historically eclipsed Krasner’s, today, both artists’ practices are rightly recognized as central to the innovations of art from the mid-20th century onwards. This exhibition continues and amplifies this reevaluation, on their own terms and in dynamic relation to each other. Drawing its subtitle, Past Continuous, from a 1976 painting by Krasner, the exhibition traces parallel lives and practices—forged first by lived experience, then shadowed by memory. Krasner, born in Brooklyn to Jewish immigrant parents from what is now Ukraine, and Pollock, raised in Los Angeles and the American West, brought specific geographies and inheritances into a shared artistic context. Their early paths traced distinct strands of American modernism that would ultimately converge in the rupture known as Abstract Expressionism, a movement that valued the translation of inner feelings into dramatic visual action. In the wake of World War II, artists asked why art mattered and what it could be. For Pollock, his breakthrough was the “drip” technique, a radical mode of painting that flourished in a condensed but prolific period. Krasner’s varied practice was typified by ceaseless explorations of abstraction, often cued by her abiding interest in the possibilities of nature and color. Krasner and Pollock: Past Continuous is the first major New York presentation devoted to either artist in more than 20 years. Featuring over 120 works, it is the first exhibition to look at the full arc of their careers together. The exhibition is made possible by Kenneth C. Griffin and Griffin Catalyst, Marina Kellen French, and the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation.
  →  Lee Krasner and Jackson Pollock, exchange and divergence.

RAW: Can fashion photography be dangerous? Lillian Bassman was told as much when, in 1950, she started making photographs so abstract that you could barely see the clothes. Depicting midcentury style for the pages of magazines, she distilled gowns and girdles to their essential silhouettes; in her photographs, chance gestures and elegant lines convey the sensations of garments, as their details dissolve into atmospheric blur. What Bassman did not show she evoked in her expressive prints—products of darkroom distortion, achieved with tissues, brushes, and bleach. In an earlier era, such an approach might have precluded commercial success. Bassman’s timing, though, could not have been better; in 1941, at age 24, she took a design job at Harper’s Bazaar, where a group of artists and editors were then reimagining how the magazine should look. With them, she helped introduce an avant-garde sensibility to the American newsstand, advancing new possibilities for photography in print. In works from a remarkable gift to The Met, Lillian Bassman: Bazaar and Beyond highlights the influence and audacity of her magazine career. The exhibition flips between the New School in Manhattan and the “New Look” in Paris, charting Bassman’s course from design apprentice to art director and accomplished photographer. Its rare vintage prints, collages, and maquettes lay out an unlikely history of modernism, refashioned for the pages of the popular press. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  Fashion photographer for Harper's Bazaar.

RAW: Dive into the artistic process of one of history’s most beloved and influential artists. A true titan of the Italian Renaissance, Raffaello di Giovanni Santi (1483–1520)—better known as Raphael—matched ambition with lyricism to create works with both intellectual heft and emotional depth, a necessary skill in the complex political landscape of Renaissance courts. In his short life of only 37 years, he achieved such profound success as a painter, designer, and architect that he was regarded as the pinnacle of artistic perfection for centuries after his death. Raphael: Sublime Poetry is the first comprehensive exhibition on Raphael in the United States, bringing together more than 170 of the artist’s greatest masterpieces and rarely seen treasures to illuminate the brilliance of Raphael’s extraordinary creativity. The son of a painter and poet, Raphael engaged with the foremost writers and thinkers of his age in Rome, displaying a poetic sensibility that captivated his peers and generations that followed. Follow the full breadth of his life and career, from his origins in Urbino to his rise in Florence, where he began to emerge as a peer of Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, to his final, prolific decade at the papal court in Rome. To underscore the range of his genius, this presentation brings together important drawings, paintings, and tapestries from public and private collections across Europe and the United States, many of which have never been shown together. With particular attention to Raphael’s portrayal of women—from his use of nude female models for the first time in Western art to his tender depictions of the Madonna and Child—and recent scientific discoveries made using state-of-the-art technology, this exhibition offers a rare opportunity to experience the genius of an artist who helped shape the course of art history. Wolfe, Gilbert and Ildiko Butler, Debra and Leon Black, Mark Gorenberg and Cathrin Stickney, the Robert Lehman Foundation, Dinah Seiver
  →  First comprehensive US presentation of Raphael.

RAW: Born in Chippewa City, a remote Native American village on the shore of Lake Superior in northern Minnesota, George Morrison (Wah-wah-ta-ga-nah-gah-boo and Gwe-ki-ge-nah-gah-boo, Grand Portage Chippewa, 1919–2000) overcame innumerable challenges—poverty, a life-threatening childhood illness, social isolation, racial and cultural barriers—to become a leader of the Abstract Expressionist movement, which he collaboratively defined both publicly and behind the scenes. Morrison’s influence as an abstract expressionist painter began in 1943 when he traveled from rural Minnesota to New York City to study at the Art Students League on a scholarship. Immersing himself in the city’s vibrant cultural scenes, he studied painting and drawing, contributed to numerous exhibitions and publications, and openly challenged the mainstream art establishment of his generation. In New York, Morrison formed meaningful connections with artists including Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Lois Dodd, and Louise Nevelson, among others. His deep appreciation for urban life—specifically, industrial landscapes, jazz, and literature—permanently shaped his artistic practice and imagery. This exhibition explores how Morrison’s aesthetic inspiration and future trajectory drew from his love of New York, which he called a “Magical City.” Featuring 25 of his most important paintings and drawings from this early period, the exhibition culminates in his Horizon series. It also features rare archival materials that place Morrison at the heart of the Abstract Expressionist movement in 1940s and 1950s New York.
  →  Ojibwe painter's abstract New York work.

RAW: The hand-held fan was an unexpected muse for some of the most innovative artists in 19th-century Europe. Fans became hugely popular across many levels of society during this period, serving as functional and fashionable objects of adornment and communication. Well-known French Impressionists such as Edgar Degas and Camille Pissarro not only featured this feminine accessory in their work but also adopted it as an experimental format for their art. Fanmania investigates why avant-garde artists incorporated fans into their work and sheds light on themes of gender, courtship, consumerism, and appropriation. Artists were attracted to the semicircular form for myriad reasons, including fascination with fans from Asia and Spain, commercial ambition, and their interest in formal and technical innovation. Displaying more than 75 artworks from across The Met collection, this multimedia exhibition features painted and printed fans from Europe and Asia as well as artworks that depict women wielding fans to explore the phenomenon of “fanmania.”
  →  Folding fans as fashion and display.

RAW: Emily Sargent’s watercolors—recently rediscovered—capture the world with a clarity and expressiveness that were all her own. This exhibition brings her luminous work into focus, situating it within the creative, complex world of the Sargent family. This unique presentation features watercolors by Emily Sargent (1857–1936), her older brother, renowned portraitist John Singer Sargent (1856–1925), and their mother, Mary Newbold Sargent (1826–1906). As the artistic family traveled seasonally through Europe, Mary encouraged her children’s creative aspirations. The siblings had a close relationship and often sketched and painted side by side. As John Singer Sargent’s bold portraits increasingly garnered critical attention, his younger sister Emily supported his career while building a body of work of her own that remained largely unseen. Drawn entirely from The Met collection, Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family takes a close look at their art and explores how paths diverged for daughter and son, revealing the challenges women artists faced in the late 19th century. Intended as a complement to The Met’s Sargent and Paris, this exhibition celebrates the recent gift—from the artists’ heirs—of 26 Emily Sargent watercolors, which will be making their debut. This generous gift continues a long legacy of family giving that formed the foundation of the Museum’s extensive Sargent holdings. Emily Sargent: Portrait of a Family is made possible by the William P. Rayner Fund.
  →  Watercolours by Sargent's sister.

RAW: Before the Brooklyn Bridge became an iconic symbol of New York City, it was a bold idea sketched on paper. With 11,000 drawings stored in the city’s Municipal Archives, its construction is one of the most thoroughly documented engineering projects of the 19th century. Met experts examined a selection of these extraordinary studies through The Met’s Scientific Research Partnerships program—a grant-funded initiative that provides free scientific support to art institutions nationwide. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close presents seven of these impressive drawings for the first time in forty years, spotlighting the multiyear collaboration between The Met and the Municipal Archives as well as the Museum’s ongoing commitment to sharing resources with New York City institutions. Designed by German engineer John A. Roebling (1806–1869), a pioneer in steel-wire rope technology used for suspension bridges, the Brooklyn Bridge was completed in 1883 by his son, Washington A. Roebling (1837–1926), with help from skilled assistants. After Washington became ill, his wife, Emily Warren Roebling (1843–1903), took over supervision of the project and played a crucial role in its success. The Brooklyn Bridge Up Close offers fresh insights into the physical properties of these monumental drawings, informing future conservation treatments. It also highlights science’s vital role in uncovering new narratives and providing unprecedented access to artists’ creative processes. This special installation is made possible by the Mellon Foundation.
  →  Bridge construction in drawings and prints.

RAW: American artist Man Ray (1890–1976) was a visionary known for his radical experiments that pushed the limits of photography, painting, sculpture, and film. In the winter of 1921, he pioneered the rayograph, a new twist on a technique used to make photographs without a camera. By placing objects on or near a sheet of light-sensitive paper, which he exposed to light and developed, Man Ray turned recognizable subjects into wonderfully mysterious compositions. Introduced in the period between Dada and Surrealism, the rayographs’ transformative, magical qualities led the poet Tristan Tzara to describe them as capturing the moments “when objects dream.” The exhibition will be the first to situate this signature accomplishment in relation to Man Ray’s larger body of work of the 1910s and 1920s. Drawing from the collections of The Met and more than 50 U.S. and international lenders, the exhibition will feature approximately 60 rayographs and 100 paintings, objects, prints, drawings, films, and photographs—including some of the artist’s most iconic works—to highlight the central role of the rayograph in Man Ray’s boundary-breaking practice. “Before my eyes an image began to form, not quite a simple silhouette of the objects as in a straight photograph, but distorted and refracted … In the morning I examined the results, pinning a couple of the Rayographs—as I decided to call them—on the wall. They looked startlingly new and mysterious.” — Man Ray The exhibition is made possible by the Barrie A. and Deedee Wigmore Foundation. Goldsmith Foundation, The Daniel and Estrellita Brodsky Foundation, The International Council of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Andrea Krantz and Harvey Sawikin, and Schiaparelli.
  →  Photographs, rayographs across Dada and Surrealism.

RAW: The traditional East Asian lunar calendar consists of a repeating twelve-year cycle, with each year corresponding to one of the twelve animals in the Chinese zodiac. The association of these creatures with the Chinese calendar began in the third century BCE and became firmly established by the first century CE. The twelve animals are, in sequence: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig. Each is believed to embody certain traits that are manifested in the personalities of people born in that year. January 29, 2025, marks the beginning of the Year of the Snake, a creature characterized as alert, calm, and smart. Celebrating the Year of the Snake presents a remarkable selection of works drawn from the Museum’s collection illustrating the significant role that the snake plays in Chinese culture, including a 3,000-year-old bronze ritual vessel with a spout formed by joined snakes’ heads, a 13th-century pottery figure of a mischievously smiling snake, and an 18th-century exquisitely painted porcelain cup portraying a scene from the “Legend of the White Snake,” a popular folktale of love and romance between humans and fantastic creatures.
  →  Asian works featuring the snake.

RAW: Casa Susanna brings together photographs and publications created by and for a community of cross-dressers who met regularly in New York City and the Catskill Mountains throughout the 1960s. Two modest resorts run by Susanna Valenti and her wife, Marie Tornell, provided safe spaces for guests to freely cross-dress en femme during an era of strictly defined gender roles. They used the camera to create and affirm their femme identities, exchanging photographs at gatherings or sharing them by mail. These snapshots—some candid, others playfully performative—were rediscovered at a Manhattan flea market in 2004 and have come to be known as the Casa Susanna photographs. The exhibition also features issues of Transvestia, an underground magazine that published the photographs along with fiction, poetry, makeup and clothing advice, and autobiographical essays by members of the community. During this period, most cross-dressers lived in isolation and shame. The exhibition presents new research into the double lives cross-dressers led as married men with established careers. The photographs also bring to light the type of woman they aimed to embody—such as the “girl next door,” the respectable housewife, the matron—a middle-class ideal of femininity that was both liberating and limiting. Casa Susanna offers insight into a significant pre-Stonewall cross-dressing scene, inviting visitors to understand this world and its connection to the lives of transgender people today. The exhibition is organized by the Art Gallery of Ontario and Les Rencontres d’Arles in collaboration with The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The exhibition is made possible by The Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, Inc.
  →  1950s–60s Catskills retreat photographs.

RAW: In ancient Egypt, images of gods weren’t just images—they brought the gods to life. Egyptians believed that it was through their depictions in tombs, temples, and shrines that the deities could enter sacred spaces and become active participants in rituals, offering a vital connection between the human and divine worlds. Over Egypt’s long history, its belief system grew to include more than 1,500 gods with many overlapping forms and traits. Subtle visual cues like what a figure wore, how they posed, or the symbols they carried helped identify them and their roles. Divine Egypt brings together almost 250 works of art and objects, many of them on loan from institutions such as the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Musée du Louvre, Paris, and the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, Copenhagen, to examine the imagery associated with the most important deities in ancient Egypt’s massive body of gods. Depictions of the stately falcon-headed Horus, the lion-headed Sakhmet, and the serene, shrouded Osiris reveal the striking ways the kings and people of ancient Egypt recognized and interacted with their gods. While the king had a daily direct relationship with the gods in the inner sanctuaries of great temples, people without such access found ways to connect with their gods through rituals, offerings, and objects of private devotion. This immersive look at how deities were depicted reveals the many roles they played in people’s lives, providing them with meaning in front of life’s uncertainties and the permanence of death. The exhibition is made possible by The John A. Moran Charitable Trust. Cullman, Alaina and Stirling Larkin, and Norby Anderson. The catalogue is made possible by the Kelekian Fund. Cotti.
  →  Major Egyptian exhibition on twenty deities.

RAW: Ganesha, the son of Shiva and Parvati, is a Brahmanical (Hindu) diety known to clear a path to the gods and remove obstacles in everyday life. He is loved by his devotees (bhakti) for his many traits, including his insatiable appetite for sweet cakes and his role as a dispenser of magic, surprise, and laughter. However, Ganesha is also the lord of ganas (nature deities) and can take on a fearsome aspect in this guise. The seventh- to twenty-first-century works in this exhibition trace his depiction across the Indian subcontinent, the Himalayas, and Southeast Asia. Featuring 24 works across sculptures, paintings, musical instruments, ritual implements, and photography, the exhibition emphasizes the vitality and exuberance of Ganesha as the bringer of new beginnings. The exhibition is made possible by the Florence and Herbert Irving Fund for Asian Art Exhibitions. During the exhibition, a selection of artworks will come off view and be replaced by new works: Rotation 1: November 19, 2022–June 11, 2023 Rotation 2: June 17, 2023–June 11, 2024 Rotation 3: June 13, 2024–January 4, 2026
  →  Depictions of Ganesha across Asian art.

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":25,"title":"METAMORPHOSES OVID AND THE ARTS","raw":"From June 23 to September 20, 2026, with an extraordinary extension through October 11, Galleria Borghese hosts Metamorphoses. Ovid and the Arts, a major exhibition project developed in collaboration with the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam. Curated by Francesca Cappelletti and Frits Scholten, the exhibition was conceived through a shared scholarly dialogue between the two institutions. Following its Dutch presentation, which will close on 25 May, the project will travel to Rome in June, where it will be presented in an autonomous and original configuration. Taking Ovid’s Metamorphoses – one of the foundational and most enduring texts of the Western imagination – as its point of departure, the project explores the theme of transformation as a universal principle and as a key to interpreting the cosmos, matter, and the human condition. Ovid’s poem thus becomes the gateway to a worldview grounded in change, in the instability of forms, and in the permeability of boundaries between the human, the natural, and the divine. The spaces of Galleria Borghese constitute a particularly privileged context for the development of this exhibition project. The very foundation of the villa fuori Porta Pinciana is rooted in the symbolic universe of the Metamorphoses, making this site not only suitable but intrinsically connected to the theme of the exhibition. Cardinal Scipione Borghese commissioned the construction of the Casino nobile to house part of his collection, conceiving the architecture as a cultural device capable of weaving together myth, art, and self-representation within a coherent system of meanings. This vocation was further reinforced in the eighteenth century through the restorations commissioned by Marcantonio IV Borghese and entrusted to Antonio Asprucci, who reorganised the interiors by placing sculptures at the centre of the rooms and integrating them within a decorative programme inspired by the Metamorphoses, thereby shaping a context in which the presence of Ovid bec"}
{"i":27,"title":"RETURN TO GALLERIA BORGHESE. GIOVAN FRANCESCO PENNI AND RAPHAEL’S WORKSHOP","raw":"From March 17 to May 10, 2026, Galleria Borghese will host an exhibition curated by Lucia Calzona, dedicated to the “homecoming” of a precious allegory, the Allegory of Good Hope, attributed to Giovan Francesco Penni and acquired at auction on May 14, 2025. This acquisition is part of a project, strongly championed by the museum, to recompose and restore the original appearance of its collection through a careful and rigorous process of reconstructing the museum’s historical and collecting identity. With Return to Galleria Borghese, alongside the exhibition Marcello Provenzale of Cento: A Genius of Baroque Mosaic in the Rome of the Borghese , the museum resumes its program of “dossier exhibitions.” These are research projects focused on a selected number of works from the collection, designed to explore crucial turning points in its history and restore its original character to the public, refocusing attention on a central chapter of its collecting legacy through history, attributions, and critical rediscovery. The arched panel, whose Borghese provenance is documented in 17th-century inventories as a work by Raphael—to whom Penni was a close collaborator—is displayed in the very room that houses Renaissance painting and the masterpieces of the great Umbrian and Tuscan master, marking a reunification awaited for over two centuries. The allegory is presented alongside Charity, its original pendant, now in a private collection. The reconstruction of this diptych, which was separated at the end of the 18th century, provides an opportunity to reinterpret a decisive passage in the collection’s history, from its first mentions in inventories to the Ottley sales (1797–1799), which dispersed numerous works under the pressure of Napoleonic events. Alongside the dialogue between the two panels, the exhibition explores the figure of Giovan Francesco Penni, a key protagonist in the dissemination of Raphael’s style in early 16th-century Rome. The presence of the Adoration of the"}
{"i":28,"title":"MARCELLO PROVENZALE FROM CENTO. A GENIUS OF BAROQUE MOSAIC IN BORGHESE ROME","raw":"On March 17, and running until May 10, 2026, Galleria Borghese inaugurates the exhibition Marcello Provenzale from Cento: A Genius of Baroque Mosaic in Borghese Rome. Produced in collaboration with the Pinacoteca Civica “il Guercino” in Cento—where the exhibition will move in a different configuration from October 2, 2026, to January 10, 2027—the show brings back to center stage the figure of Marcello Provenzale, a leading figure in the rebirth of mosaic in the Rome of Paul V and one of the most significant moments in the revival of this practice between the 16th and 17th centuries. On the 450th anniversary of the artist’s birth, Galleria celebrates a key protagonist of artistic culture in Borghese Rome, a central figure in the transformation of mosaic into a modern language within the climate of the Counter-Reformation. With Marcello Provenzale from Cento, and the exhibition Return to Galleria Borghese: Giovan Francesco Penni and Raphael’s Workshop, the museum resumes its program of “dossier exhibitions.” These research projects, dedicated to a selected number of works from the collection, are designed to explore crucial turning points in its history and restore its original character to the public, refocusing attention on a central chapter of its collecting legacy through history, attributions, and critical rediscovery. Born in Cento in 1576 and trained as a painter, Provenzale specialized in mosaic art in Rome, participating in the construction sites of St. Peter’s Basilica starting in 1600. Working in the Clementine Chapel and on the decoration of the dome, he distinguished himself by his ability to translate the pictorial qualities of color and light into glass tesserae. Thanks to his skill, Pope Paul V entrusted him with prestigious commissions, including the execution of the Borghese coat of arms in the nave of St. Peter’s and the restoration of Giotto’s Navicella (1617–1618). In 1616, the pontiff officially recognized him for the invention of “a new way of m"}
{"i":29,"title":"ZANABAZAR AT THE GALLERIA BORGHESE. FROM MONGOLIA TO THE GLOBAL BAROQUE","raw":"From 20 January to 22 February 2026, the Galleria Borghese, in collaboration with the Asian Art Museum of Turin, will host two extraordinary works by the Mongolian artist Zanabazar, presenting an unprecedented dialogue between East and West under the sign of “global baroque.” In the century of Gian Lorenzo Bernini, the absolute genius of European Baroque – sculptor, painter, and architect, whose ideal home is today the Galleria Borghese thanks to the patronage of Cardinal Scipione Borghese – Asia, too, saw the rise of a figure of comparable stature: Zanabazar (1635–1723). Born in the heart of the Asian steppe, within one of the largest empires ever built by humankind, Eshidorji belonged to the noble lineage of Genghis Khan. Renowned by his spiritual name, Zanabazar, he was recognized as Öndör Gegeen, “His Holiness the Enlightened One”: the first Khutuktu Jetsundamba, the title of the highest religious authority of the Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism in Mongolia, venerated as the reincarnation of one of the original five hundred disciples of the Buddha. An exceptionally charismatic spiritual leader, Zanabazar was also a brilliant linguist and, above all, the greatest Mongolian sculptor of the early modern period. To him and to his disciples we owe works profoundly inspired by travels and periods of residence in Tibetan monasteries, revered as sacred objects in places of worship and in the temples he founded throughout Mongolia. Among these, the representations of the Taras stand out for their exceptionally high aesthetic value: female manifestations of the Buddha, deities associated with protection, liberation, and the inner states of being. Zanabazar succeeded in spreading Buddhism in Mongolia on an unprecedented scale, making it accessible to ordinary believers. His aim was to create sculptures capable of speaking directly to the eye and the soul: natural, harmonious forms, “warm to the eye,” as the Mongols would describe them. Bernini and Zanabazar left an indeli"}
{"i":30,"title":"WANGECHI MUTU – BLACK SOIL POEMS","raw":"From June 10 to September 14, 2025, Galleria Borghese presents, for the first time within the residence of Cardinal Scipione, a solo exhibition by Kenyan-American artist Wangechi Mutu, titled Black Soil Poems, curated by Cloé Perrone. Like the recently concluded exhibition dedicated to the Baroque poet Giovan Battista Marino, this project also stems from the museum’s ongoing interest in poetry. Conceived as a site-specific intervention, it unfolds throughout the museum’s interior galleries, its façade, and the Secret Gardens. It challenges classical tradition through suspensions, fragmented forms, and newly imagined mythologies, establishing a multilayered dialogue between the artist’s contemporary language and the symbolic institutional authority. The title evokes the dual nature of Mutu’s practice: poetic and mythological, yet deeply connected to contemporary social and material contexts. “Black soil” — rich and malleable under the rain, almost like clay — appears across multiple geographies, including the Secret Gardens of the Galleria Borghese, which resonate with the artist’s imagination. From this soil, the sculptures seem to emerge, as if molded by a primordial force, giving shape to stories, myths, memories, and poems. The metaphor underscores the generative and transformative power of her work: rooted in materiality, yet open to multiple future interpretations. Wangechi Mutu’s intervention introduces a new vocabulary into the historical and symbolic architecture of the Galleria Borghese. Through sculpture, installation, and moving image, the artist proposes an innovative approach to the museum space — one that challenges hierarchy, permanence, and fixed meaning. Her works question the visual weight and authority of the collection through strategies of suspension, fluidity, and fragmentation. In doing so, the museum is no longer presented as a static container of objects, but as a living organism, in continuous transformation, shaped by loss, adaptation, and"}
{"i":31,"title":"POETRY AND PAINTING IN THE 17TH CENTURY. GIOVAN BATTISTA MARINO AND THE MARVELOUS PASSION.","raw":"With Poetry and Painting in the 17th Century. Giovan Battista Marino and the Marvelous Passion, the exhibition scheduled from November 19, 2024, to February 9, 2025, the Galleria Borghese explores, through an original project, the connections between poetry and painting, sacred and profane, literature, art, and power in the early 17th century. Following the path offered by the texts of Giovan Battista Marino (1569-1625), the exhibition traces a journey through the great Renaissance and Baroque art, from Titian to Tintoretto, from Correggio to the Carracci, from Rubens to Poussin, celebrating the greatest Italian poet of the 17th century and his 'marvelous' passion for painting. Curated by Emilio Russo, Patrizia Tosini, and Andrea Zezza, the exhibition focuses on the golden age of the Baroque in painting and literature, a period during which the relationship between the two arts finds perhaps its highest expression in the life and works of the poet. Known for his poem Adone (1623), centered on the love story between Adonis and Venus, Giovan Battista Marino is also the author of La Galeria (1619), a collection of 624 poetic compositions dedicated to an equal number of works of art, divided between Paintings and Sculptures, Fables and Histories. This collection was crafted with a play of reflections and a continuous expressive challenge between poetic texts and works of art, real or imaginary. The life and literary production of Giovan Battista Marino are closely tied to the masters and masterpieces of early 17th-century figurative art, with whom he came into contact in the intellectual circles and most important courts of the time: that of Matteo di Capua in Naples, of Pope Clement VIII Aldobrandini in Rome, of Giovan Carlo Doria and Giovan Vincenzo Imperiali in Genoa, and of Carlo Emanuele I in Turin. In these environments, surrounded by rich collections, the poet established direct relationships with artists such as Cavalier d'Arpino, Bernardo Castello, Caravaggio,"}
{"i":32,"title":"LOUISE BOURGEOIS. UNCONSCIOUS MEMORIES","raw":"Louise Bourgeois. Unconscious Memories is the first exhibition dedicated to a woman contemporary artist at the Galleria Borghese, and the first Roman exhibition of work by the French-American artist, who was one of the most influential of the last century. Conceived by Cloé Perrone and curated with Geraldine Leardi and Philip Larratt-Smith, the exhibition, produced in collaboration with The Easton Foundation and the Academy of France – Villa Medici, focuses on Bourgeois’ great contribution to sculpture and the deep connection between her artistic practice and the Galleria Borghese. Louise Bourgeois. Unconscious Memories interweaves the artist’s personal memory with the collective memory of the public museum: the exhibition route passes through several rooms of the Museum, the Aviary and the Meridiana Garden, a place that Bourgeois explored with admiration during her first visit to Rome in 1967. About 20 sculptural works will be in dialogue with the unique architecture of the Casino Borghese and its collection, focusing on themes of metamorphosis, memory, and the expression of emotional and psychological states. These themes, also explored by artists in the Borghese collection, are invigorated by Bourgeois’ contemporary lens, which offers new perspectives on the human experience, thanks in part to her extraordinary diversity of forms, material, and scale, allowing her to express a range of emotional states. Louise Bourgeois’ (1911, Paris – 2010, New York) seven decade-long artistic career significantly advanced critical discussions of contemporary art, incorporating the themes of psychoanalysis and feminism that have since become central. In the 1960s, after a period of intense psychoanalysis, she began working with biomorphic forms, experimenting with latex, plaster, wax and other materials. In the early 1990s she presented her first group of Cells, self-contained structures, some resembling rooms, composed of sculpted elements, found objects, and items she had kept"}
{"i":33,"title":"Beauty and the Ideal","raw":"From May 16, 2025, Room 1 of the Pinacoteca di Brera will be transformed to host “Beauty and the Ideal,” an unmissable exhibition dedicated to Antonio Canova. Twelve plaster busts restored by Banca Ifis, including the marble Vestal and enameled miniatures from the Sommariva collection, offer a unique journey into Neoclassicism, the founding heart of the Milanese museum. The Pinacoteca di Brera opens to the public, from May 16, 2025, “Beauty and the Ideal,” a new exhibition entirely dedicated to Antonio Canova. Protagonists are 12 plaster busts restored and lent by Banca Ifis, presented for the first time in Milan in the renovated Room 1. Alongside these masterpieces, the Vestal, a precious marble bust by the neoclassical master, returns to Brera after more than a century, along with a selection of enameled miniatures from the collection of Giovanni Battista Sommariva, a key figure in Napoleonic art. The rearrangement enhances the sculpture as an integral part of the museum itinerary and celebrates the link between Brera and Neoclassicism."}
{"i":34,"title":"Pinacoteca viaggiante","raw":"The exhibition presents the extraordinary collection of 99 miniatures on enamel commissioned by Count Giovanni Battista Sommariva, a patron and neoclassical collector. Created between 1810 and 1825, the “traveling Pinacoteca” reproduces the masterpieces of his collection, transforming art into an elegant tool for personal representation. The wealthy Count Giovanni Battista Sommariva (1757-1826), a fervent supporter of Napoleon, was the greatest collector of the Neoclassical era, as well as a great patron, commissioner, and protector of artists, especially French ones. Between 1810 and 1825, the count commissioned five highly skilled miniaturists of the time (Adèle Chavassieu d’Haudebert, Henri L’Evêque, Pierre Édouard Gautier Dagoty, Giambattista Gigola, and Abraham Constantin) to reproduce many of the paintings in his collection on enamel. He thus created a “portable pinacoteca” that accompanied him on his numerous trips around Europe, proudly displaying it as his personal calling card. Nobles, princes, diplomats, ambassadors, intellectuals, and ladies who frequented the salons of the European nobility of his time observed the small paintings with wonder and amazement: a veritable “traveling pinacoteca.” Consisting of 99 beautiful miniatures in enamel on copper framed by fine gilded bronze frames, the “catalog” made great art prêt-à-porter."}
{"i":35,"title":"Giovanni Agostino da Lodi. An itinerant painter between Leonardo and Giorgione","raw":"For the first time, an exhibition traces the career of one of the most original artists working in Italy during the decades spanning the 1500s. The exhibition captures the complexity of this artist through 46 works by him and by artists such as Bramantino, Alvise Vivarini, Giovanni Bellini, Giorgione, and Dürer, housed at Brera and on loan from museums including the Musée du Louvre in Paris, the Gallerie dell’Accademia in Venice, the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, the Galleria Borghese in Rome, the Museo del Prado in Madrid, and the National Gallery in London. 46 works brought together for the first time reconstruct his career and the context in which it developed. Alongside his paintings, masterworks by Bramantino, Giovanni Bellini, Giorgione, Dürer, Lorenzo Lotto and Girolamo Romanino, the masters with whom Giovanni Agostino engaged, reinterpreting them in an entirely personal way. Giovanni Agostino da Lodi. Born in Lodi, he trained in Milan in the circle of Bramante and Bramantino before moving to Venice at the end of the fifteenth century, where he worked for over a decade absorbing the language of the city’s great masters. He returned to Milan around 1510, where he worked on major commissions including Santa Maria della Pace and the Certosa di Pavia. His is a story of belated recognition. For centuries his works were attributed to other painters. It was only in the early twentieth century that the art historian Wilhelm von Bode began grouping together, under the provisional name “Pseudo Boccaccino”, a set of paintings with an unmistakable style. The painter’s true identity emerged thanks to a signature on a small panel held at Brera, published in 1912, though his full critical rehabilitation only came at the end of the last century. What makes Giovanni Agostino da Lodi unique is his ability to move between two distinct pictorial culturesm Milanese and Venetianm without fully belonging to either. In Venice he absorbed the influence of Alvise Vivarini, then"}
{"i":36,"title":"Oman and Italy: Two Millennia of Cross-Civilisational Dialogue","raw":"Through a selection of 59 works, artifacts, manuscripts, maps, and historical documents spanning from the Iron Age to the present day, the exhibition traces the history of trade and relations that, for over two millennia, have linked the Sultanate of Oman to the Mediterranean, Italy, and the major cultural and commercial networks of the ancient and modern worlds. Where Biblioteca Nazionale Braidense, Sala Maria Teresa When June 18–September 13, 2026 Hours Monday: 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM (access via the Library only; last admission at 5:30 PM) Tuesday through Friday: 9:30 AM – 6:00 PM (last admission at 5:30 PM)"}
{"i":38,"title":"Giorgio Armani. Milano, per amore","raw":"Over 120 creations trace Armani’s style while reimagining the path through the museum. Painting and fashion intertwine, inviting visitors to engage with unexpected visual and material juxtapositions. Giorgio Armani has often spoken of his love for Brera, the neighbourhood he chose to live and work in, and whose dual soul, both cultured and deeply vital, he admired, with its blend of elegance and artistic freedom. When From September 24, 2025, to January 11, 2026 Extended until May 3, 2026 Hours Tuesday to Sunday: 8:30 a.m. to 7:15 p.m. (last admission at 6:00 p.m.)"}
{"i":39,"title":"La grande pittura italiana","raw":"La Pinacoteca di Brera e il Comune di Arcore presentano una privata raccolta di dipinti, realizzati da maestri del secondo Novecento, provenienti da una vasta operazione di confisca di 52 opere, condotta da Corte d’Appello, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza e Nucleo Polizia Economico – Finanziaria di Milano. La Pinacoteca di Brera, in collaborazione con il Comune di Arcore, presenta una mostra eccezionale che riunisce per la prima volta 25 dipinti di maestri del secondo Novecento, selezionati nell’ambito di una significativa operazione di confisca condotta da Corte d’Appello, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza e Nucleo di Polizia Economico-Finanziaria di Milano. Frutto di un’attenta selezione a cura della Soprintendenza di Milano, le opere esposte fanno parte di un nucleo più ampio di 52 opere sottoposte a sequestro, oggi in fase di assegnazione a sei prestigiose istituzioni museali italiane: Pinacoteca di Brera, Museo del Novecento (Milano), Complesso Monumentale della Pilotta (Parma), Galleria Civica d’Arte Moderna e Contemporanea (Torino), Galleria Internazionale d’Arte Moderna “Ca’ Pesaro” (Venezia) e Galleria Nazionale d’Arte Moderna e Contemporanea (Roma). La mostra si configura come un viaggio nella pittura italiana (e non solo) dagli anni ’40 ai primi anni 2000, articolato in nuclei tematici e cronologici: dalle figure dal vero di Guttuso e de Pisis, alle sperimentazioni astratte di Tancredi, Dorazio e Afro; dalle strutture simboliche e segni grafici di Tobey, Capogrossi, Scialoja e Licata, fino ai giochi iconografici di Novelli. Un caso virtuoso di cooperazione tra istituzioni pubbliche, quello sancito dal protocollo d’intesa firmato nel 2024 da Brera e Comune di Arcore, che ha reso Villa Borromeo sede di custodia per tutte le opere confiscate, sotto la vigilanza scientifica della Pinacoteca. La mostra è un’occasione rara per scoprire opere mai viste prima, restituite alla collettività e in procinto di entrare stabilmente nelle collezioni pubbliche del Paese. Un"}
{"i":40,"title":"Buon Compleanno Linus","raw":"1965–2025: 60 anni di fumetto d’autore a Milano. Una mostra-evento che ripercorre sei decenni di storia della rivista linus, tra tavole originali, copertine iconiche e un omaggio speciale ad Altan, nel 50° anniversario della Pimpa e di Cipputi. a cura di Elisabetta Sgarbi, Marcello Garofalo con la collaborazione di Igort Il Cortile d’Onore della Pinacoteca di Brera si apre al mondo del fumetto d’autore con la mostra Buon Compleanno linus. 1965–2025: 60 anni di fumetto d’autore a Milano. Con un omaggio ad Altan. L’iniziativa, parte del programma de La Milanesiana, ideata e diretta da Elisabetta Sgarbi, celebra i sessant’anni di linus, la rivista che ha rivoluzionato il panorama culturale italiano e internazionale, portando il fumetto a nuovi livelli di espressione artistica e intellettuale. Nata a Milano nell’aprile del 1965, linus è stata una vera e propria fucina di cultura pop e pensiero critico. Tra le sue pagine hanno trovato spazio non solo i celebri Peanuts di Charles M. Schulz – a cui si deve anche la scintilla originaria del progetto – ma anche personaggi entrati nell’immaginario collettivo: da Popeye di Segar a Valentina di Guido Crepax, da Corto Maltese di Hugo Pratt a Mafalda di Quino, fino a eroi contemporanei come Dylan Dog di Tiziano Sclavi e Zerocalcare. Curata da Elisabetta Sgarbi e Marcello Garofalo, con la collaborazione di Igort e l’allestimento firmato da Luca Volpatti, la mostra si propone come un vero e proprio “viaggio nella storia d’Italia”, accompagnato dal segno grafico e dalla voce spesso irriverente del fumetto. Dai fondatori Giovanni Gandini, Umberto Eco e Oreste del Buono fino all’attuale direzione di Sgarbi e Igort, il percorso espositivo racconta decenni di cultura attraverso disegni, copertine e documenti d’archivio."}
{"i":43,"title":"I Segni dei Tempi. Carlo Maria Mariani a Capodimonte","raw":"È come se, nel dipingere quest’opera nel 2019, Mariani avesse predeterminato e predestinato il suo approdo finale a Napoli e Capodimonte” La donazione del dipinto di Carlo Maria Mariani I Segni dei Tempi (2019) al Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte da parte della Fondazione Carlo Maria Mariani (New York), è accompagnata da una mostra omaggio (16 aprile -14 luglio, prorogata all’8 settembre 2026) dedicata all’artista definito “l’ultimo degli antichi e il primo dei contemporanei” a cura di Antonio Martino e Andrea Viliani (sala 6, I piano). “La mostra estiva di Capodimonte – dichiara il Direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, Eike Schmidt – raccolta nelle dimensioni ma densa di significato, celebra la generosissima donazione della tela I Segni dei Tempi (The Signs of the Times, 2019), destinata all’istituzione napoletana dalla Carlo Maria Mariani and Carol Lane Mariani Foundation di New York e la iscrive entro un orizzonte di significato più ampio grazie alla presenza di altre sette opere dell’artista, accostate a una raffinata selezione di oggetti provenienti dalle collezioni del museo. La mostra trae insieme lo spunto e il titolo dal dipinto donato, un’opera che può dirsi esemplare della visione artistica di Mariani, in quanto riunisce le due figure sulle quali la sua riflessione si è esercitata con maggiore continuità e profondità: Raffaello e Marcel Duchamp. Da questo confronto Mariani ha tratto un linguaggio del tutto personale, nel quale l’eredità formale del classicismo rinascimentale, barocco e settecentesco si congiunge all’intensità filosofica e intellettuale che, sulla scia del grande artista franco-americano e campione di scacchi, sarebbe venuta a segnare l’arte concettuale. Inserendo lo Scolabottiglie di Duchamp (1914) entro uno spazio pittorico e figurativo desunto dalla pergola illusionistica della Loggia di Amore e Psiche di Raffaello (1517-1518), nella Villa Farnesina di Agostino Chigi, allora ancora collocata in un contesto suburbano, Mariani"}
{"i":44,"title":"Emilio Isgrò. Canto Napoli","raw":"Omaggio del Maestro alla Canzone Napoletana con cancellature inedite di venticinque partiture da ‘O sole mio a Voce ‘e notte Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte dal 10 aprile al 29 settembre 2026 a cura di Eike Schmidt Per vedere, devi sollevare il velo, operando uno sforzo, perché l’arte non è mai del tutto facile, ha sempre bisogno di una decifrazione – Emilio Isgrò Canto Napoli è la mostra che Emilio Isgrò dedica alla città di Napoli, un progetto inedito curato da Eike Schmidt, Direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, presentato dal 10 aprile al 29 settembre nelle sale 81-83-84 del secondo piano. Artista concettuale e pittore – ma anche poeta, scrittore, drammaturgo e regista – il Maestro Emilio Isgrò (Barcellona Pozzo di Gotto, 1937) è uno tra i maggiori protagonisti dell’arte contemporanea internazionale. A partire dagli anni Sessanta sviluppa la pratica della Cancellatura come gesto poetico e critico, riflessione sul linguaggio, sulla memoria e sui processi della conoscenza. Questa tecnica divenuta ormai suo metodo distintivo applicato su materiali testuali di grande varietà (dai Promessi Sposi a La Bibbia, dall’Odissea alla Costituzione italiana fino alla prossima ‘cancellazione’ dell’Enciclica Laudato si’ iniziata con Papa Francesco e proseguita con Leone XIV), è qui rivolta per la prima volta alla musica napoletana. Il corpus delle partiture di alcuni tra i più celebri brani del repertorio partenopeo è sottoposto così a una rigorosa operazione di Cancellatura sulla cui superficie si posano insetti, come attratti dalla dolcezza di melodia, armonia, ritmo e versi, custoditi nelle partiture. Le complesse e deliziose figure retoriche che attraversano la canzone napoletana diventano così traccia e fondamento di un ulteriore segno che l’artista vi sovrappone con rinnovata intensità poetica. Non tutte le parole (e le celebri frasi che hanno fatto sognare, e amare, intere generazioni dall’Ottocento ad oggi) sono infatti cancellate da Isgrò: il risultato final"}
{"i":45,"title":"“Metamorfosi” di Bertozzi & Casoni","raw":"“Metamorfosi” di Bertozzi & Casoni Le porcellane e la Reggia tra storia, dialoghi e contraddizioni Inaugurazione mostra 5 dicembre 2025 ore 11,00 Napoli, Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte I piano, Appartamenti Reali Il 5 dicembre 2025 il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte presenta Bertozzi & Casoni. Metamorfosi, a cura di Eike Schmidt e Diego Galizzi. La mostra, visitabile fino al 24 aprile 2026, si sviluppa nelle sale degli Appartamenti reali al primo piano del Museo, dal Salottino Pompeiano all’elegante Salone delle Feste. Protagonisti originali e visionari della scultura contemporanea, Bertozzi & Casoni (Giampaolo Bertozzi, 1957 – Stefano Dal Monte Casoni, 1961–2023) avviarono la loro ricerca artistica ispirati dalla celebre mostra Civiltà del Settecento, realizzata nel 1980 al Museo di Capodimonte. A oltre quarant’anni di distanza da quel primo e significativo incontro con le maggiori espressioni dell’arte del Settecento napoletano, tornano a Capodimonte con la mostra Metamorfosi, una selezione di circa venti opere, tra prestiti da collezioni private e inediti realizzati appositamente per Capodimonte, in particolare Rocco (2025) – opera scelta come immagine-guida della mostra e che apre il percorso espositivo, inserita nel suggestivo Salottino pompeiano – e la colorata e strabordante opera Fenicottero degli stracci (2025), rivisitazione in ceramica policroma della nota Venere di Michelangelo Pistoletto. Il Direttore Eike Schmidt ha dichiarato: ”Celebriamo con questo percorso originalissimo, che ci accompagnerà negli appartamenti reali fino ad aprile, il legame straordinario di Bertozzi & Casoni con il Museo di Capodimonte, alle radici di una attività artistica di livello internazionale ispirata proprio nel 1980 da un viaggio a Napoli di due ragazzi talentuosi e dalla visita alla celebre mostra Civiltà del 700. E forse non poteva essere diversamente perchè i due geniali artisti, formatisi nella celebre scuola faentina, in oltre 40 anni di lavoro apprezzato in tutt"}
{"i":46,"title":"Nicola Samorì. Classical collapse","raw":"NICOLA SAMORÌ | CLASSICAL COLLAPSE Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, Napoli 28 novembre 2025 – 10 marzo 2026 – prorogata al 9 giugno 2026 Pinacoteca Ambrosiana, Milano 27 novembre 2025 – 10 marzo 2026 Milano e Napoli, la Pinacoteca Ambrosiana e il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte: due città e due istituzioni museali dalla storia e dalle identità profondamente distinte si uniscono in un unico progetto congiunto, Classical Collapse, dell’artista Nicola Samorì. Il progetto travalica la logica della “doppia mostra” per proporsi come un’operazione culturale unitaria, pensata fin dall’origine per essere declinata in due luoghi tra loro e in dialogo. Curata da Demetrio Paparoni, Alberto Rocca (Direttore della Pinacoteca Ambrosiana.) ed Eike Schmidt (Direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte), questa esposizione – al Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte dal 28 novembre 2025 al 1 marzo 2026 (prorogata fino al 9 giugno 2026) e alla Pinacoteca Ambrosiana dal 27 novembre 2025 al 13 gennaio 2026 (prorogata fino al 10 marzo) – si configura come un ponte tra Nord e Sud, tra antico e contemporaneo, tra il passato della grande tradizione pittorica e plastica e la sua reinvenzione nel presente. “Samorì affronta la tradizione visiva occidentale attraverso un processo di scavo e riscrittura. Queste non sostituiscono il gesto dell’artista, ma lo amplificano. La sua opera, oltre che per l’impianto formale, attrae per la profondità concettuale, che trasforma ogni atto di riscrittura in una sfida che destabilizza l’apparente immutabilità del classico. In un tempo in cui la tradizione rischia di essere ridotta a superficie consolatoria o, all’opposto, rifiutata come forma obsoleta, Classical Collapse propone un’alternativa radicale: il patrimonio come campo di tensione, luogo di conflitto produttivo, spazio critico per l’allenamento dello sguardo”, afferma Demetrio Paparoni. “La grande mostra personale di Nicola Samorì, nelle due sedi di Napoli e Milano simbolicamente unisce il Meridio"}
{"i":47,"title":"Capodimonte ricorda Mimmo Jodice","raw":"Capodimonte ricorda Mimmo Jodice Venerdì 21 novembre ore 11:00 Inaugurazione sala celebrativa Il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte rende omaggio a Mimmo Jodice ( Napoli 29 marzo 1934 – 27 ottobre 2025), uno dei più grandi protagonisti della fotografia contemporanea internazionale con una sala commemorativa (n.16, primo piano) inaugurata dal Direttore Eike Schmidt, da Angela e Barbara Jodice, e dal curatore Fabio Speranza. Le immagini esposte sono selezionate dalla serie Transiti (2008), opera composta da 21 polittici fotografici per un totale di 55 stampe, entrata nelle collezioni di Capodimonte con altri lavori di Jodice (Omaggio a Rodin, Avanguardia a Napoli, Eden, La città invisibile). Queste opere, insieme all’archivio documentale del Maestro, costituiranno il nucleo fondante della Casa della Fotografia “Mimmo Jodice”, un centro di cultura e promozione fotografica intitolato al maestro, di prossima apertura nella palazzina Cataneo (area est del Real Bosco). Mimmo Jodice, Transiti, stampe True Black Fine-Art Giclée su Photo-Rag 100% cotone, serie limitata di 5 edizioni Transiti testimonia il forte legame di Jodice con le istituzioni culturali della sua città. Commissionata per il cinquantesimo anniversario dell’apertura al pubblico del Museo, l’opera sintetizza due momenti fondamentali della sua ricerca artistica: la predilezione per le vedute urbane, paesaggi e luoghi metafisici della memoria e il rinnovato interesse, dopo l’impegno sociale degli anni settanta, per la figura umana, il ritratto, il volto e il rapporto con la tradizione pittorica e dell’arte classica. La composizione in dittici e polittici crea un ‘dialogo visivo’ tra epoche, tra pittura e fotografia, tra sacro e quotidiano, accostando frammenti di dipinti dei grandi maestri presenti nel Museo (Tiziano, Artemisia Gentileschi, Jusepe de Ribera, Luca Giordano) a volti di uomini, donne e scugnizzi della Napoli contemporanea. Jodice suggerisce così una continuità e, al tempo stesso, una cesura tra pas"}
{"i":48,"title":"Sogno mediterraneo. Sergio Vacchi","raw":"Mostra “Sogno mediterraneo. Sergio Vacchi” Napoli, Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte 6 novembre 2025 – 27 gennaio 2026 Un artista fra i più originali del secondo Novecento italiano, un autentico poeta delle immagini Cento anni fa nasceva Sergio Vacchi (Castenaso, Bologna, 1º aprile 1925 – Siena, 15 gennaio 2016) uno dei più originali e significativi artisti del Novecento italiano che dall’informale e dal naturalismo passa a un linguaggio personalissimo, non incasellabile in alcuna definizione di scuola, denso di riferimenti storici, mitologici e sociali. A sessant’anni dal suo debutto napoletano, il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte gli dedica l’omaggio “Sogno mediterraneo. Sergio Vacchi”, per il centenario della nascita dell’artista, con opere rappresentative della sua produzione dal 1959 al 2006. Scelte insieme alla Fondazione Vacchi, le opere esposte per l’occasione rivelano la forza dirompente dell’originalissima mente dell’artista, un visionario spesso largamente in anticipo sui tempi. La mostra napoletana è accompagnata da un catalogo edito da Forma e aperto dal saggio di Eike Schmidt intitolato ‘Da Adamo ed Eva a Federico II di Hohenstaufen Sergio Vacchi a Napoli 1965-1967’ . In questo 2025 cadono anche le celebrazioni dei 2500 anni dalla fondazione di Napoli, oggi più che mai sulla ribalta internazionale nel ribadire il carattere aperto, cosmopolita di questa metropoli mediterranea e il suo ruolo storicamente all’avanguardia: la mostra del maestro bolognese è quindi l’occasione per ripercorrere anni fondamentali della vita culturale partenopea nel secolo scorso. “La piccola ma concentrata esposizione che offriamo oggi a Capodimonte – scrive Schmidt nel suo saggio – vuole ricordare soprattutto il ruolo di Sergio Vacchi in città nel momento più decisivo per la svolta contemporanea della scena artistica di Napoli e riavvicinarlo al vivacissimo e sperimentale panorama attuale, attraverso alcune delle opere più pregnanti della sua fase successiva“. La mostra, che"}
{"i":49,"title":"NAFRICA-MASCHERE (Memorie & Identità / Uomini o Maschere)","raw":"MOSTRA NAFRICA-MASCHERE (Memorie & Identità / Uomini o Maschere) A cura di SIMON NJAMI Una mostra sull’eredità coloniale italiana, l’identità, la memoria e la potenza trasformativa dell’arte contemporanea Apertura al pubblico: 16 ottobre 2025 Ingresso libero tutti i giorni / dalle 11:00 alle 16:00 tranne la domenica, i festivi e i mercoledì Sede: Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, Napoli A cura di: Simon Njami Testi: Simon Njami Nell’ambito delle celebrazioni Napoli2500 con la direzione artistica di Laura Valente, il Comune e il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, diretto da Eike Schmidt, ospiteranno la mostra NAFRICA–MASCHERE a cura di Simon Njami e prodotta da Andrea Aragosa per Black tarantella. L’appuntamento è realizzato in collaborazione con il Ministero della Cultura, Dipartimento Valorizzazione Patrimonio Culturale; l’Università Federico II di Napoli; l’Università L’Orientale e MUCIV, Museo delle Civiltà. La mostra affronta le radici irrisolte del colonialismo italiano in Africa, interrogando il rapporto tra memoria, identità e i linguaggi dell’arte contemporanea. Si ripercorre, da un lato, l’influenza che la scultura africana ebbe sui movimenti artistici del primo Novecento e, dall’altro, la narrazione coloniale che ha profondamente segnato la storia culturale italiana. Dalla Biennale di Venezia del 1922, dove furono mostrati per la prima volta manufatti di “arte primitiva”, alle grandi esposizioni coloniali di Napoli (1934 al Maschio Angioino e 1940 alla Mostra d’Oltremare), il percorso mette in luce il modo in cui “l’ideologia coloniale” si è servita delle arti per consolidare il proprio immaginario. Elemento centrale della mostra NAFRICA-MASCHERE è il lavoro di una figura controversa come l’antropologo fiorentino Lidio Cipriani, i cui viaggi documentati tra il 1923 e il 1927 verso il Corno d’Africa – attraverso fotografie, testi e calchi facciali policromi – rivelano la costruzione scientifica e culturale dell’ “altro”, del “diverso”, del “Negro”. Questi"}
{"i":50,"title":"L’Ospite bergamasca Lucina Brembati di Lorenzo Lotto. Capodimonte è di Moda – Percorsi nella storia del Costume","raw":"Lucina Brembati di Lorenzo Lotto è L’Ospite Bergamasca (2 ottobre 2025- 13 gennaio 2026) Capodimonte è di Moda – Percorsi nella storia del Costume Primo appuntamento con Silvia Malaguzzi “Una dama e il suo pittore. Il mistero dei gioielli’ È il ritratto di Lucina Brembati di Lorenzo Lotto (1521 – ca. 1523), capolavoro dell’Accademia Carrara di Bergamo, il nuovo ‘ospite’ del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte (2 ottobre- 6 gennaio, prorogato fino al 13 gennaio). Dopo Courbet, Rubens, Baglione, Carracci e Caravaggio (prosegue l’esposizione dell’Ecce Homo ritrovato di Madrid fino al 2 novembre accanto alla Flagellazione) nuovo appuntamento con la serie di preziose mostre che pongono in dialogo opere che sono capisaldi della storia dell’arte con il patrimonio di Capodimonte. Il celebre ritratto dell’elegantissima gentildonna bergamasca, la cui identità fu scoperta dagli storici risolvendo un enigma contenuto nel quadro, sarà esposto nella sala 61 (al secondo piano del museo) insieme a capolavori della collezione Farnese di Capodimonte, scelti proprio perché testimoniano la moda e il costume di quel periodo, opulenta e carica di significato. L’arrivo a Napoli dell’Ospite bergamasca è anche l’occasione per presentare un nuovo ciclo di incontri dal titolo ‘Capodimonte è di moda- Percorsi nella storia del costume’ che ospiterà fino a dicembre 2025 tre tra le maggiori studiose internazionali sul tema della storia della gioielleria, della pellicceria, dei tessuti e degli abiti femminili del ‘500. “Invitare a Capodimonte ‘Lucina Brambati’ e immaginare un viaggio nella storia del costume è stato immediato e coinvolgente – spiega Eike Schmidt, direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte. Intanto esponendo intorno all’opera, identitaria della città di Bergamo e raramente prestata, i nostri ritratti di Antea e di Galeazzo Sanvitale, di Parmigianino, insieme a quello di Bernardo de’ Rossi, che è anche, al momento il più precoce ritratto eseguito da un giovane Lotto. Per approfon"}
{"i":51,"title":"La Pietà di Gricci, il modellatore del Re. Nuova acquisizione di Capodimonte. Tra terracotta e porcellana","raw":"“La Pietà di Gricci, il modellatore del Re. Nuova acquisizione di Capodimonte. Tra terracotta e porcellana” Il Direttore Schmidt: “Emozionante riportare a Napoli un tassello importante della storia della Real Fabbrica” Un tassello importante dell’identità di Capodimonte torna a casa per completare la storia della Real Fabbrica di Porcellana fondata da Carlo di Borbone nel 1743: è un piccolo ma straordinario capolavoro la Pietà di Giuseppe Gricci, il modellatore del Re, pezzo rarissimo in terracotta che gli studiosi hanno identificato circa un ventennio fa sul mercato internazionale dell’arte. “E’ stato emozionante riportare quest’opera a Napoli, dove fu realizzata, ed ammirarla da vicino – dichiara Eike Schmidt, direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte – Nelle collezioni pubbliche cittadine non è conservato alcun bozzetto in terracotta ascrivibile, come questo, alla mano del celebre capo-modellatore della Real Fabbrica. Il modello in creta plasmato da Gricci è, infatti, lo stadio dell’opera in cui più immediatamente è possibile cogliere il segno e la cultura figurativa di questo grande artista fiorentino, che Carlo di Borbone volle con sé, prima a Napoli e poi a Madrid. Abbiamo voluto condividere subito questa acquisizione con i tanti visitatori che nel periodo estivo affollano il Museo e Real Bosco. Con un piccolo allestimento che vuole essere una preziosa anticipazione del nuovo allestimento delle porcellane atteso tra pochi mesi“. “La Pietà di Gricci, il modellatore del Re. Nuova acquisizione di Capodimonte. Tra terracotta e porcellana” è il titolo dell’allestimento, fino al 28 ottobre (prorogato fino al 11 novembre). In questa occasione la nuova terracotta del Museo e Real Bosco viene messa a confronto con la Pietà con il San Giovanni Evangelista in porcellana del Museo Duca di Martina, sempre del Gricci. Giuseppe Gricci Pietà, 1744-1745 circa Terracotta con tracce di policromia Napoli, Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte Acquisto 2025 Real Fabbrica della P"}
{"i":52,"title":"Capodimonte doppio Caravaggio. L’Ecce Homo e La Flagellazione di Cristo","raw":"Dopo quattro secoli il capolavoro ritrovato a Madrid torna a Napoli dove fu dipinto. Schmidt: Qui un dialogo unico con un Ospite davvero speciale. È la nostra proposta per omaggiare Napoli 2500. Dal 24 luglio al 3 novembre “Capodimonte Doppio Caravaggio” è un’occasione unica per ammirare l’Ecce Homo di Madrid, l’ultimo capolavoro ad essere entrato nel corpus del pittore, eccezionalmente in dialogo accanto alla Flagellazione di Cristo (1571-1610). Caravaggio (Michelangelo Merisi), Flagellazione di Cristo, 1607; olio su tela, Napoli, Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte (proprietà del Fondo Edifici di Culto, Ministero dell’Interno) Caravaggio (Michelangelo Merisi), Ecce Homo, 1606-07 ca. o 1609 ca., olio su tela, Icon Trust Giovedì 24 luglio è stata inaugurata dal direttore Eike Schmidt alla presenza del Sindaco di Napoli Gaetano Manfredi, l’esposizione‘Capodimonte doppio Caravaggio’: fino al 2 novembre l’Ecce Homo di Caravaggio, dipinto a Napoli quattro secoli fa e riscoperto nel 2021 a Madrid, è l’Ospite speciale del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, in dialogo con il capolavoro la Flagellazione di Cristo. Entrambe le opere furono realizzate nei soggiorni napoletani del Merisi (1606/1607 e 1609) e sono ora esposte nella sala 62 in un confronto di grande suggestione che pone accanto la celebre pala d’altare della Chiesa di San Domenico (di proprietà del Fondo Edifici di Culto in consegna al museo dal 1972 per ragioni di tutela) e il dipinto perduto, appartenuto a un viceré di Napoli – Garcia Avellaneda y Haro – alla metà del Seicento. ‘Capodimonte Doppio Caravaggio’ vuole essere anche un omaggio alle celebrazioni per i 2500 anni della città ed è un’iniziativa promossa in collaborazione con il Comune di Napoli. La Flagellazione di Cristo, dopo il successo della grande mostra romana per il Giubileo (‘Caravaggio 2025’, 7 marzo – 20 luglio), è subito rientrata infatti al Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, portando con sé un ospite d’eccezione: l’Ecce Homo spagnolo, dipinto"}
{"i":53,"title":"L’Ospite bolognese. L’Annunciazione di Ludovico Carracci","raw":"L’Annunciazione di Ludovico Carracci è l’Ospite bolognese, in prestito dalla Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna. Il Direttore Eike Schmidt: “Primavera del Museo con mostre agili e confronti pensati per esaltare il nostro patrimonio”. Il 25 marzo, giorno nel quale la Chiesa Cattolica celebra l’Annunciazione del Signore, il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte presenta ‘L’Ospite bolognese. Ludovico Carracci (1555-1619)’ con la Annunciazione (1584, olio su tela, 182,5×221) in prestito dalla Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna fino al 15 giugno. “Dopo Rubens e Baglione ecco il terzo atteso ospite del mese di marzo che arricchisce ancora di più l’offerta della primavera dell’arte a Capodimonte: Ludovico Carracci, al quale dedichiamo la sala 6 – spiega Eike Schmidt, Direttore del Museo e Real Bosco – I visitatori troveranno la sua celebre Annunciazione in dialogo con due opere di Capodimonte, dello stesso periodo e sul medesimo fondamentale tema iconografico, una di Scipione Pulzone e l’altra di Francesco Curia. Una gradita formula quella dell’Ospite che testimonia il costante dialogo con importanti istituzioni italiane e internazionali e che ben si adatta, in concomitanza dei lavori nella Reggia, all’esigenza di mostre agili, coinvolgenti, e confronti pensati per esaltare il nostro patrimonio” Ludovico Carracci, Annunciazione, 1584 olio su tela in prestito dalla Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna Nell’opera ‘ospite’, in visita da Bologna, la Vergine intenta a leggere un libro di preghiere, è interrotta da un angelo che le porge un giglio e le annuncia che Dio si è incarnato in lei. L’inginocchiatoio in legno, la cesta di vimini con il cucito e il letto sulla destra, così come le linee del pavimento in cotto che segnano la fuga prospettica, alludono a un evento miracoloso che avviene in un ambiente scarno, simile a un’umile dimora della Bologna del tempo. Le torri cittadine si intravedono anche attraverso la finestra aperta da cui irrompe la colomba dello Spirito Santo. È con un preci"}
{"i":54,"title":"Ospiti d’eccezione. Pieter Paul Rubens ‘San Sebastiano curato dagli angeli’ e Giovanni Baglione ‘Amor sacro e Amor profano’","raw":"Rubens a Capodimonte: dall’11 marzo in mostra ‘San Sebastiano curato dagli angeli’ (1601-1602, olio su tela, 155,5 x 119,5 cm) uno dei capolavori delle Gallerie Nazionali di Arte Antica di Roma custodito dalla Galleria Corsini. L’opera di Pieter Paul Rubens (Siegen, 28 giugno 1577 – Anversa, 30 maggio 1640), è in dialogo con alcune potenti raffigurazioni del martirio del Santo nelle collezioni del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte (sala 61): i dipinti di Domenico Cresti detto il Passignano, Bartolomeo Schedoni, Andrea Vaccaro, Mattia Preti. Pieter Paul Rubens (Siegen, 28 giugno 1577 – Anversa, 30 maggio 1640) San Sebastiano curato dagli angeli’ (1601-1602, olio su tela), Gallerie Nazionali di Arte Antica di Roma custodito dalla Galleria Corsini Giovanni Baglione (Roma, 1573 circa –30 dicembre 1643) Amor sacro e Amor profano’ (1602, Olio su tela), Gallerie Nazionali di Arte Antica di Roma custodito da Palazzo Barberini Da Palazzo Barberini, altra sede delle Gallerie, in prestito (allestito nella sala 62) anche ‘Amor sacro e Amor profano’ di Giovanni Baglione (1602, Olio su tela, 240 x 143 cm), pittore e biografo, noto anche come anti-Caravaggio (Roma, 1573 circa –30 dicembre 1643), protagonista della celebre rivalità con il Merisi, che portò a processo per ingiurie nella Roma del primo ‘600. “L’arrivo di questi due capolavori rientra in un significativo scambio con le Gallerie Nazionali di Arte Antica – spiega Eike Schmidt direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte – sarà l’occasione per i frequentatori di Capodimonte, soprattutto per i cittadini che vengono al museo regolarmente, di ammirare questi dipinti, raramente prestati, in un diverso contesto e per giunta a Napoli. Un dialogo che stimolerà nuove riflessioni e paragoni, nel caso del San Sebastiano di Rubens con un allestimento dal punto di vista iconografico che è un vero e proprio compendio seicentesco sul tema. Mi piace ricordare che il capolavoro di Baglione torna a Napoli esattamente dopo 40 anni dall"}
{"i":55,"title":"Gaia Fugazza. Sete","raw":"Il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte e il Polo delle Arti Caselli Palizzi di Napoli presentano l’opera dell’artista Gaia Fugazza con la mostra personale Sete e la performance Acque dentro. Il progetto è a cura di Valter Luca De Bartolomeis e Sara Dolfi Agostini, e in collaborazione con i professori e gli studenti del Polo delle Arti. “Capodimonte si apre alla creatività giovane e performativa - dichiara Eike Schmidt direttore del Museo e Real Bosco - ospitando una artista dal respiro internazionale nel quadro delle storiche sinergie con il Polo delle Arti Caselli Palizzi. E lo fa nel segno della Porcellana, un tema che declineremo in varie forme nel 2025 nel nostro percorso verso l’apertura della grande sezione dedicata a questa arte identitaria”. L’evento conclude un progetto di residenza dell’artista presso l’Istituto ad Indirizzo Raro “Giovanni Caselli”, ubicato all’interno del parco di Capodimonte, nel medesimo antico edificio che fu sede della prima Real Fabbrica della Porcellana, fondata nel 1743 e oggi parte del Polo delle Arti Caselli Palizzi diretto da Valter Luca De Bartolomeis. La residenza, che ha portato l’artista a Napoli tra il 2023 e il 2024, si è focalizzata sulla lavorazione della porcellana in terzo fuoco e sulla sua ibridazione con altri materiali. La mostra Sete e la performance Acque dentro sono parte di un progetto artistico che esplora un’intelligenza diffusa del corpo attraverso un immaginario che va da elementi marini ad agenti atmosferici, dai bisogni fisici a quelli sociali. Concepito in due parti, il progetto è un acceleratore di stimoli tattili, visivi e concettuali che mettono in relazione dimensione individuale e collettiva. In mostra si trovano due serie di opere a muro in porcellana, le prime realizzate nei colori vivaci del terzo fuoco; le altre contaminate con vetro o trafitte da ossa di calamaro. Le ossa di calamaro sembrano piume di plastica e, come le sculture a forma di becchi di polpo della performance, sono forse testimoni d"}
{"i":56,"title":"L’Ospite francese. Gustave Courbet ‘Les Demoiselles des bords de la Seine (été)","raw":"Gustave Courbet con ‘Les Demoiselles des bords de la Seine (été) è l’Ospite francese al Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, in visita dal Petit Palais, Musée des Beaux-Arts de la Ville de Paris. Il Direttore Eike Schmidt: “Nuovo spazio di dialogo con i musei internazionali. Un prestito di grande significato culturale anche per la citta di Napoli”. Gustave Courbet con il suo celebre dipinto ‘Les Demoiselles des bords de la Seine (été)’ è l’ospite francese al Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, in visita dal Petit Palais, Musée des Beaux-Arts de la Ville de Paris. Olio su tela di grandi dimensioni (cm 174X206), l’opera del maggior esponente del realismo francese, è in mostra, per la prima volta a Napoli, nella sala 6 dal 7 novembre al 23 febbraio 2025. Dichiara il Direttore del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte Eike Schmidt: “Con questo allestimento si apre un nuovo spazio dedicato al dialogo tra Capodimonte e gli altri musei internazionali che porterà a Napoli opere significative della storia dell’arte mondiale. Come nel caso del nostro ‘Ospite francese’, un dipinto che fece molto discutere la società dell’epoca per il soggetto moderno e il realismo nel tema, allora nuovo, dei piaceri e degli svaghi all’aperto. ‘Les Demoiselles des bords de la Seine (été)’ è davvero un prestito di grande significato culturale non solo per il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte ma anche per la città: sono infatti tanti gli artisti napoletani dell’Ottocento che, nelle proprie opere, mostrano il fascino esercitato su di loro dall’arte e dalla personalità stessa di Courbet”. Courbet, Gustave (10.06.1819-31.12.1877), Les demoiselles des bords de la Seine (été), 1857. Olio su tela. CC0 Paris Musées / Petit Palais, Musée des Beaux-Arts de la Ville de Paris ‘Les Demoiselles des bords de la Seine (été)’ presentato al Salon parigino nel 1857 suscitò subito grande scalpore per la sensualità del suo messaggio: in una calda giornata estiva due giovani donne, probabilmente due prostitute, riposano dis"}
{"i":57,"title":"Giuseppe Pirozzi. L’atelier dello scultore","raw":"La mostra antologica “Giuseppe Pirozzi. L’atelier dello scultore”, aprirà le porte ai visitatori dal 16 settembre 2024 al 6 gennaio 2025 all’interno del Cellaio, edificio storico situato all’interno del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, Napoli. La mostra, attraverso l’esposizione al pubblico di circa 80 opere, intende rappresentare i momenti salienti della lunga attività dello scultore. L’esposizione, a cura di Maria Tamajo Contarini e Luciana Berti, presenterà una selezione di opere scultoree, tra cui bronzi, gessi, terracotte, disegni, stampe e preziose sculture-gioiello in argento fuso a cera persa. Il progetto mira a ricreare l’esperienza della visita all’atelier dello scultore, offrendo un dialogo intimo con le opere e un percorso cronologico che copre il periodo dagli anni Cinquanta a oggi, evidenziando l’evoluzione delle tecniche e dei materiali utilizzati dall’artista. Le opere, provenienti dall’atelier dell’artista e da varie collezioni museali e private, garantiscono un percorso antologico completo. La mostra è stata realizzata con la collaborazione dell’artista e della figlia Francesca Pirozzi, che, in stretta collaborazione con i curatori del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, hanno contribuito alla selezione delle opere e dei materiali di archivio. Dichiara l’artista prof. Giuseppe Pirozzi: Sono molto contento del riconoscimento che questa mostra rappresenta all’interno del contesto cittadino e in questo museo di prestigio. Il luogo scelto: il Cellaio, è un edificio integrato perfettamente nel Bosco, questo rispecchia il mio lavoro perché da sempre la natura ha fatto parte delle mie opere. Capodimonte è un luogo a me molto caro perché ho abitato qui vicino, mia moglie insegnava all’Istituto Caselli e il mio studio è stato per un lungo periodo a villa Fagella, nei pressi del Bosco, dove c’erano molte residenze d’artista. Associo Capodimonte all’ex Soprintendente Raffaello Causa che, accanto all’arte antica, ha saputo valorizzare i giovani artisti. Infat"}
{"i":58,"title":"Gian Maria Tosatti. Damasa","raw":"Mai, infine, ho sentito come allora (forse a causa del vuoto del mare e del mondo) l’acuto odore dolce-amaro dei gerani rosa. Anna Maria Ortese. Il Porto di Toledo In questa stanza ci ritroviamo anche noi a sognare, a immaginare un omaggio alla pioggia, alle grate fognarie, alle piccole strade, alla cenere, al vuoto e al silenzio della povertà e delle domeniche… Un giusto riconoscimento che Tosatti ci offre per la grande artista che Napoli ha incantato e annientato». Sylvain Bellenger Presentata il 2 dicembre 2023 l’opera Damasa di Gian Maria Tosatti, installazione allestita permanentemente nella sala 82 della Reggia, acquisita in collezione grazie al sostegno del PAC 2022-2023 – Piano per l’Arte Contemporanea, promosso dalla Direzione Generale Creatività Contemporanea del Ministero della Cultura. Realizzata ed esposta a Napoli per la prima volta nel 2017, Damasa è l’installazione ambientale ideata come casa dell’anima di Anna Maria Ortese, la principale autrice che la città ha avuto nel suo Novecento letterario. Il titolo dell’opera deriva dal nome che la scrittrice diede a uno dei personaggi del romanzo sperimentale Il porto di Toledo, nel quale riconosciamo il suo alter-ego. Accogliendo la volontà dell’artista di non esporre l’opera lontano da Napoli, Sylvain Bellenger, nel doppio ruolo di Direttore del Museo di Capodimonte e di curatore del progetto, ha destinato la sala 82, al secondo piano della Reggia, all’esposizione permanente dell’installazione, restituendo uno spazio reale e al contempo visionario alla scrittrice e infrangendo l’esilio che ha lungamente relegato Ortese, morta in solitudine a centinaia di chilometri di distanza, sognando ancora la sua città. Grazie a questa acquisizione, Damasa trova la sua dimora d’elezione in una delle sale del museo significativamente affacciata verso il porto, situata in continuità con la Sezione di Arte contemporanea, lungo il percorso espositivo dedicato al Seicento. Alla presentazione del 2 dicembre 2023 hanno parte"}
{"i":59,"title":"Oltre Caravaggio. Un nuovo racconto della pittura a Napoli","raw":"“PER UN ORGANISMO [IL MUSEO] CHE CONTIENE IL PASSATO, MA SI CONFRONTA CONTINUAMENTE COL PRESENTE, CREDO CHE VERAMENTE LA PIÙ GROSSA CONTRADDIZIONE SIA LA PRETESA DI RIMANERE IMMOBILE” A. LUGLI, L’EDUCAZIONE ESTETICA, 1978 La mostra “Oltre Caravaggio. Un nuovo racconto della pittura a Napoli” (dal 31 marzo 2022 ), a cura di Stefano Causa, docente di Storia dell’arte moderna e contemporanea presso l’Università degli studi di Napoli “Suor Orsola Benincasa” e Patrizia Piscitello, responsabile Ufficio mostre e prestiti del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte si sviluppa nelle 24 sale del secondo piano del Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, diretto da Sylvain Bellenger. In esposizione 200 opere provenienti tutte dalle collezioni permanenti del museo, senza prestiti esterni. Una mostra, realizzata in collaborazione con le associazioni Amici di Capodimonte Ets e American Friends of Capodimonte, che si propone di rilanciare il dibattito presentando un’altra lettura del ‘600 napoletano, diventato per amatori e storici il secolo di Caravaggio. L’invenzione del Seicento Il ’600 napoletano è una ‘invenzione’ recente. È stato riscoperto e definito meno di un secolo fa dallo storico d’arte Roberto Longhi (1890-1970). Secondo lo studioso, il naturalismo di Caravaggio sarebbe la spina dorsale dell’arte napoletana. Gli studi seicenteschi sul Sud derivano, quasi senza eccezione, dalle sue proposte formulate in una serie di saggi che sono stati pubblicati essenzialmente nel secondo decennio del secolo scorso. Caravaggio (Michelangelo Merisi), Flagellazione di Cristo, 1607, olio su tavola, Napoli, chiesa di San Domenico Maggiore, proprietà Ministero dell’Interno, Fondo Edifici di Culto (in temporanea consegna dal 1972) Dall’inaugurazione della Pinacoteca di Capodimonte nel 1957 fino ad ora, l’esposizione dei dipinti del ’600 napoletano è stata in gran parte il risultato di quest’analisi. La realtà è più complessa e i curatori della mostra, Stefano Causa e Patrizia Piscitello, sulla base d"}
{"i":60,"title":"Yeesookyung. Whisper Only to You","raw":"Yeesookyung. Whisper Only to You (11.10.2019-13.01.2020) Madre · museo d’arte contemporanea Donnaregina, a cura di Sabrina Rastelli e Andrea Viliani Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte, a cura di Sabrina Rastelli, Paola Giusti e Maria Rosaria Sansone La Fondazione Donnaregina per le arti contemporanee e il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte presentano Whisper Only to You, la prima mostra personale dell’artista sud-coreana Yeesookyung (Seoul, 1963) in due istituzioni pubbliche italiane, nata da un’idea di Sylvain Bellenger e Andrea Viliani con Sabrina Rastelli, curata da Sabrina Rastelli e Andrea Viliani per il Madre · museo d’arte contemporanea Donnaregina, e da Sabrina Rastelli, Paola Giusti e Maria Rosaria Sansone per il Museo e Real Bosco di Capodimonte. Il percorso espositivo, che si sviluppa attraverso le sale dei due musei, comprende opere create con differenti mezzi e materiali, quali scultura, installazione e video, e nuove produzioni, che l’artista ha realizzato accostando i frammenti settecenteschi della Real Fabbrica di Porcellana di Capodimonte. Grazie anche alla collaborazione con l’Istituto ad indirizzo raro Caselli-De Sanctis, Yeesookyung ha inoltre tenuto un laboratorio formativo durante il suo periodo di residenza a Napoli. Per il progetto, la Fondazione Donnaregina per le arti contemporanee ha ricevuto il sostegno del Korean Art Abroad 2019, promosso dal Ministero della Cultura, dello Sport e del Turismo della Corea del Sud, e da Korea Arts Management Service. Il potere della fragilità Yeesookyung con la sua prima mostra a Napoli ci ha fatto capire una cosa fondamentale, una cosa che la storia non ha mai potuto capire cioè il potere della fragilità. La porcellana e la sua storia a Napoli e nell’Europa settecentesca fino a oggi con le mostre di Capodimonte e del museo Madre illustra precisamente questa storia. Una storia che attraversa la storia dell’umanità e delle civiltà umane. Yeesookyung è un’artista visiva la cui pratica include l’utilizzo di div"}
{"i":61,"title":"Transforming Energy: Marina Abramović","raw":"Internationally renowned artist Marina Abramović will make history in 2026 as the first living female artist to be honored with a major exhibition at the Gallerie dell’Accademia in Venice. Transforming Energy, presented on the occasion of the 61st Venice Biennale, will be open from May 6, 2026, and remain on view until October 18, 2026. The exhibition marks the artist’s 80th birthday and establishes a profound dialogue between her pioneering performance art and the Renaissance masterpieces that have shaped Venice’s cultural identity. Curated by Shai Baitel, Artistic Director of the Modern Art Museum (MAM) Shanghai, in close collaboration with the artist, the exhibition unfolds both in the permanent collection galleries and in the temporary exhibition spaces—an absolute first in the institution’s history—placing Abramović’s work at the very heart of Venetian heritage. At the heart of Transforming Energy lies the encounter between past and present, the material and the immaterial, body and spirit. Visitors are invited to experience a series of interactive “Transitory Objects”—beds and stone structures embedded with crystals—by lying down, sitting, or standing on them, activating what Marina Abramović defines as a “transmission of energy.” Iconic works such as Imponderabilia (1977), Rhythm 0 (1974), Light/Dark (1977), Balkan Baroque (1997), and Carrying the Skeleton (2008) are presented alongside projections of historical performances, while new creations produced for the occasion highlight her long-standing exploration of endurance, vulnerability, and transformation."}
{"i":62,"title":"TransLucent — The Form of Light","raw":"Starting on 10 September, the Gallerie dell'Accademia di Venezia will present Leiko Ikemura. TransLucent — The Form of Light, an exhibition dedicated to the glass sculptures of Leiko Ikemura, one of the most acclaimed contemporary artists on the international art scene. The works are displayed throughout the museum's historic galleries in dialogue with masterpieces from the permanent collection, ranging from Paolo Veneziano and Vittore Carpaccio to Titian and Giambattista Tiepolo. The exhibition brings Ikemura's contemporary artistic research into conversation with the Venetian painting tradition, creating a journey of iconographic, symbolic, and spiritual connections. Building on her extensive experience in painting and sculpture, Leiko Ikemura explores the expressive possibilities of glass, reaffirming the interdisciplinary nature of her artistic practice. The transparency and almost immaterial quality of glass become the medium for exploring universal themes such as transformation, fragility, and transcendence. Her interest in glass emerged during the years of the Covid-19 pandemic, when the luminosity and evanescent nature of this material took on a profound symbolic meaning for the artist. Beyond its technical properties, her works evoke light taking form, suggesting a presence suspended between the visible and the invisible. The exhibition brings together female figures, hybrid creatures, fantastical animals, and sleeping faces—recurring motifs in Ikemura's poetic universe. Nature, humanity, and imagination merge into a delicate and visionary visual language. These works engage in dialogue with the paintings in the Gallerie dell'Accademia's collection, revealing unexpected affinities around themes of motherhood, metamorphosis, contemplation, life, death and transcendence. The exhibition also includes a new work created specifically for Venice in collaboration with a Murano glass furnace, conceived as a tribute to the lagoon's centuries-old glassmaking traditio"}
{"i":63,"title":"Siena: The Art of Bronze, 1450–1500","raw":"Siena: The Art of Bronze, 1450–1500 is the first exhibition to focus on Siena as a center of artistic excellence and technical innovation in bronze sculpture during the Italian Renaissance. The show brings together nearly forty works in bronze, including statues, reliefs, candelabra, medals, and more—many of which have never been exhibited outside of Tuscany—by some of the most influential sculptors in this period, among them Donatello, Vecchietta, and Francesco di Giorgio. Building on popular past presentations of bronze sculpture at the Frick, the exhibition invites visitors to appreciate the medium’s beauty and versatility while learning about the complex technical and political challenges that the Sienese bronzeworkers faced. The Art of Bronze is presented in the Ronald S. Lauder Exhibition Galleries and is organized by Giulio Dalvit, the Frick’s Associate Curator, who will also author an accompanying catalogue alongside a team of international contributors."}
{"i":64,"title":"Kent Monkman: Officer and Laughing Girl","raw":"This fall, in its intimate Cabinet Gallery, The Frick Collection will present an installation of new paintings by the contemporary artist Kent Monkman (b. Canada, 1965), whose practice explores historic European art and narratives from an Indigenous perspective. For this project, Monkman takes inspiration from Officer and Laughing Girl (ca. 1657), one of the Frick’s three paintings by the seventeenth-century Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, to probe the ways in which it and other artworks of its time represented the effects of global trade and colonization. With his characteristic humor, style, and deeply researched iconography, Monkman deploys his alter ego—the time-traveling, shapeshifting, gender-fluid Miss Chief—to imagine an evolution of Indigenous and European encounters over the last five centuries, with their attendant cultural, technological, and environmental changes. After experiencing the installation, visitors will be able to proceed to the nearby South Hall, in the permanent collection galleries, to view the beloved work by Vermeer that prompted the series. The exhibition, which will travel from the Frick to the Beaverbrook Art Gallery in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada, will be accompanied by a bilingual English–Canadian French catalogue featuring texts by Monkman, Aimee Ng, the Frick's Peter Jay Sharp Chief Curator, and Emma Hassencahl-Perley, Curator of Indigenous Art at the Beaverbrook."}
{"i":65,"title":"Painting with Fire: Susanne de Court and the Art of Enamel","raw":"In the spring of 2027, The Frick Collection will present the first exhibition ever dedicated to the French enameler Susanne de Court. Active around 1600, De Court is a significant yet enigmatic figure in the creation of painted enamels—one of the distinctive art forms of the French Renaissance, treasured over the centuries for its durability, lively religious and mythological subjects, and jewel-like colors. With nearly one hundred surviving works, De Court is the only woman known to have made enamels in her era and is widely believed to have been the only woman to lead a workshop in Limoges, the center of enamel production in France. This exhibition will bring together, for the first time, around fifty of De Court’s signed works, inviting visitors to discover the artist’s practice and some of the finest examples of her extraordinary output. The works on display will showcase her distinctive techniques—notably her layering of exquisite red, green, and blue translucent enamel over small pieces of foil—and will illustrate the range and complexity of De Court’s oeuvre, from luxurious vessels and plates to large ensembles and small objects, such as purses and plaques for watches or mirrors. Three works from the Frick’s permanent collection will anchor the exhibition: a pair of saltcellars featuring scenes from the myth of Orpheus, acquired by Henry Clay Frick in 1916 from the estate of J. P. Morgan, and an oval medallion depicting Apollo and the Muses, a gift to the museum from Alexis Gregory in 2021. The remaining pieces are drawn from public and private collections in the United States and across Europe. The enamels will be complemented by a selection of prints by major sixteenth-century engravers from which De Court drew inspiration for narratives and compositions, creating a rare opportunity to study her works alongside contemporary sources. Painting with Fire: Susanne de Court and the Art of Enamel is organized by Marie-Laure Buku Pongo, the Frick’s Associate Curat"}
{"i":66,"title":"Ruffles & Ribbons: Fashion Plates from the Time of Marie Antoinette","raw":"Organized in conjunction with Gainsborough: The Fashion of Portraiture, this Cabinet installation presents twenty-four hand-colored engravings that depict French fashion in the late eighteenth century. These engravings, known as fashion plates, are selected from Gallerie des modes et costumes français (1778–87), the largest and most influential series of such plates at the time. Featuring over four hundred images created by talented designers and engravers in Paris, Gallerie des modes inspired many competitors and counterfeits across Europe. Its success anticipated the arrival of true fashion magazines, such as Cabinet des modes (1785–93). Catering to an increasingly fashion-conscious public, Gallerie des modes shows a wide range of poufs, headwear, jewelry and ensembles worn by French people from various walks of life. Touted as “d’après nature” (drawn from life), these images were presented as accurate representations of the diverse fashions that flourished under the reign of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. No complete set of Gallerie des modes survives today. Many were discarded when fashions changed, and others could have been destroyed during the French Revolution due to their association with the decadence of the ancien régime. The Frick Art Research Library has an impressive collection of three hundred and seventy original prints, a selection of which are on view at the Frick for the first time. Ruffles & Ribbons: Fashion Plates from the Time of Marie Antoinette is organized by Yifu Liu, the Frick’s 2024–26 Anne L. Poulet Curatorial Fellow, and is accompanied by an illustrated catalogue."}
{"i":67,"title":"Gainsborough: The Fashion of Portraiture","raw":"Gainsborough: The Fashion of Portraiture explores the relationship between works by period-defining English artist Thomas Gainsborough and fashion, a concept and industry that touched nearly every aspect of British society in the eighteenth century. The artist’s painted images were subject to the same forces of fashion as the people they depict. Like the cut and cloth of a jacket, the shape, size, and facture of a painted portrait could be avant-garde or passé. In Gainsborough’s world, the trappings, trade, and power of fashion were everywhere—from magazines to tailor shops, from the opera to promenades—and his portraits were at the heart of it all. The museum’s first special exhibition dedicated to the artist—and the first devoted to Gainsborough’s portraiture ever held in New York—this show brings together over two dozen of Gainsborough’s most spectacular portraits from across North America and the United Kingdom, representing each stage of his four-decade career. Technical investigations conducted in collaboration with conservators at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, the J. Paul Getty Museum, and the Yale Center for British Art will also shed light on Gainsborough’s artistic process and materials, exploring connections between his practice and goods that fueled the fashion industry—from dyes, pigments, and cosmetics to textiles and jewelry. This exhibition is organized by Aimee Ng, the Frick’s Peter Jay Sharp Chief Curator, and is complemented by a richly illustrated catalogue and robust calendar of programs."}
{"i":68,"title":"To the Holy Sepulcher: Treasures from the Terra Sancta Museum","raw":"This groundbreaking exhibition presented more than forty rare objects from the Church of the Holy Sepulcher. Largely unknown to the public until their recent rediscovery, the opulent works range from liturgical objects in gem-encrusted gold and silver to richly decorated vestments in velvet, damask, and other luxurious materials. These treasures were donated by European Catholic monarchs and Holy Roman Emperors in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries to the church in Jerusalem, the religious center of the Christian faith, and have been safeguarded and used ever since by the Franciscan friars who maintain the site. The works represent the pinnacle of European goldsmithing and textile design of the era, much of which has otherwise been lost or severely damaged. Before the opening of the new Terra Sancta Museum, these items from its holdings traveled to several institutions in Europe and North America, including the Frick—the exhibition’s first venue in the United States. The exhibition was organized by Xavier F. Salomon, the Frick’s Deputy Director and Peter Jay Sharp Chief Curator, along with Jacques Charles-Gaffiot and Benoît Constensoux. Commented Salomon, “This exhibition presents a completely unique opportunity for visitors, building on the Frick’s successful past presentations highlighting masters of European decorative arts. Displayed for the first time in the United States, the exquisite objects in this show are rare survivals, as similar objects were often severely damaged, melted down, or otherwise lost—nothing like them survives in the countries in which they were created. We are deeply grateful for this collaboration with the Custody of the Holy Land as we look ahead to the opening of the Terra Sancta Museum, which will offer a more permanent public display of these treasures.” For his work on the exhibition, occurring over a period of years, Salomon has been awarded the Cross of Merit (Crucem Ex Merito) by the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulcher of"}
{"i":69,"title":"Flora Yukhnovich's Four Seasons","raw":"Taking inspiration from the French Rococo, Italian Baroque, and Abstract Expressionist movements, Flora Yukhnovich (b. England, 1990) creates work that is at once modern and timeless by translating historic compositions into contemporary abstractions. Using the Frick’s Four Seasons by François Boucher as a point of departure, Yukhnovich’s site-specific mural covers the walls of the museum’s Cabinet. This project is accompanied by the publication of a new volume in the Frick’s acclaimed Diptych series, which highlights a single masterpiece from the permanent collection by pairing complementary essays by a curator and a contemporary artist, musician, or other cultural luminary. This volume, which will come out later in the fall, will feature a text by Yukhnovich and an essay by Xavier F. Salomon, the Frick’s Deputy Director and Peter Jay Sharp Chief Curator, on the significance of Boucher’s beloved series."}
{"i":70,"title":"Vermeer’s Love Letters","raw":"The unprecedented installation of paintings united in the exhibition Vermeer’s Love Letters pairs the Frick’s Mistress and Maid with special loans of the Rijksmuseum’s Love Letter and the National Gallery of Ireland’s Woman Writing a Letter with Her Maid. Their presentation together in a single gallery for the first time offers visitors an opportunity to consider Vermeer’s treatment of the theme of letters as well as his depiction of women of different social classes."}
{"i":71,"title":"Porcelain Garden: Vladimir Kanevsky at The Frick Collection","raw":"Coinciding with the reopening of its newly renovated and enhanced home on Fifth Avenue, The Frick Collection presented a series of commissioned works by sculptor Vladimir Kanevsky (born 1951, Ukraine). Known for his life-like porcelain flowers, Kanevsky's sculptures have been exhibited in museums around the world, including the State Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, and Hillwood Estate, Museum and Gardens in Washington, D.C. Kanevsky's opulent creations are meant to evoke the beautiful live bouquets displayed throughout the museum when it first opened to the public in 1935."}
{"i":72,"title":"Highlights of Drawings from The Frick Collection","raw":"A display of works on paper from the Frick's permanent collection inaugurated the new Cabinet gallery. These sheets are rarely on view due to their sensitivity to light. The selection of twelve works range from sketches to highly finished independent works of art by artists such as Pisanello, Rubens, Goya, and Degas, spanning the fifteenth through nineteenth centuries and complementing the museum's holdings of paintings, sculpture, and decorative arts."}
{"i":73,"title":"Canaletto & Bellotto","raw":"Explore Venice, London, and Vienna through the eyes of Canaletto and Bellotto, two of the eighteenth century’s most celebrated city painters. Discover how these Venetian masters created views that are scientifically precise and yet also dramatic compositions – works crafted to captivate an international audience. The famous city views of Giovanni Antonio Canal (better known as Canaletto) and his nephew Bernardo Bellotto (who often called himself Canaletto as well, to emphasize his connection to his celebrated uncle) take centre stage in the upcoming exhibition at the Kunsthistorisches Museum. With the help of optical devices, such as the camera obscura, these two Venetian painters surveyed European cities with scientific precision, yet creatively transformed what they saw into grand pictorial scenes. Both artists painted spectacular views of their hometown, Venice, but they both left the lagoon city to pursue their careers abroad: Canaletto moved to London, while Bellotto worked in Dresden and Vienna. Featuring major international loans – many of which have never before been exhibited in Austria – the exhibition invites you to rediscover the eighteenth-century city and two artists whose careers mirror a Europe shaped by mobility, war, and uncertainty."}
{"i":74,"title":"Head and Shoulders. Coins in Fashion","raw":"Coin images are among the smallest portraits in the world. Making use of extremely confined space, they show finely detailed half-length likenesses, usually in profile. The small size of coin portraits frequently calls for highly symbolic imagery. The hairstyles, garments, and accessories that are depicted go beyond being aesthetically pleasing add-ons: they reflect the Zeitgeist and open a window into the cultures of bygone ages. More than a hundred coin portraits are on show from a cultural history perspective in the exhibition Head & Shoulders, illustrating several millennia of fashion and lifestyle. Like small time capsules, coins and medals preserve the elaborate hairstyles, magnificent beards, and intricate head coverings of each period. The exhibition travels through more than 2,400 years of fashion history with the help of over 100 coins. Coins were minted in large amounts and were in daily use. A coin portrait was therefore the image that was most frequently seen by a ruler’s subjects. Hence, the way the sovereigns styled themselves carried particular importance."}
{"i":75,"title":"My Story – Ancient Female Portraits and Their Afterlife","raw":"The special presentation Vitrine EXTRA, which periodically showcases different ancient objects as temporary additions to the permanent exhibition of the Kunsthistorisches Museum's Collection of Greek and Roman Antiquities arrow_outward , focuses in its eighth edition on ancient portraits of women and their afterlife. Two very different, previously unexhibited female portraits offer insights into current research, which helps us restore the lost history of many objects. The Collection of Greek and Roman Antiquities at the Kunsthistorisches Museum contains around 250 Roman marble portraits, many of which have undergone numerous alterations and additions. In many cases, these date back as far as the sixteenth century and illustrate what was expected of ancient sculptures at the time, and how works of art were adapted to the tastes and purposes of the period. Ancient portraits often bring to life, in a strikingly vivid and immediate way, people who lived long ago. In our special exhibition, we let these sculptures speak for themselves. They tell us about their appearance and the important role played by an often underestimated detail: the hairstyle. It is through this that key questions in portrait research can be explored – from dating to the identity of the subjects. At the heart of the exhibition are two portraits of women. One is a marble bust, which probably depicts the deified Julia (61–89 CE) (image below), daughter of Emperor Titus and niece of Emperor Domitian of the Flavian dynasty. She wears a distinctive hairstyle with curls above her forehead, behind which a metal diadem was presumably concealed, a feature that points to her social rank and the era. Collection of Greek and Roman Antiquities, Hochparterre Maria-Theresien-Platz, 1010 Vienna Google Maps arrow_outward"}
{"i":76,"title":"Crime Scene Ephesus","raw":"A mysterious tomb, an unexplained murder, a world in turmoil – in Ephesus, one of the most magnificent cities of the ancient world, Cleopatra’s sister Arsinoë was murdered under circumstances that remain unexplained. What role did the big players of the time – Cleopatra, Julius Caesar, Mark Anthony, and Augustus – play in it? Embark on your own investigation and discover the world of antiquity on the threshold of the Roman Imperial period. This exhibition by the Kunsthistorisches Museum is being held at the Neue Hofburg / Weltmuseum Wien. At the beginning of the 20th century, Austrian archaeologists discovered an octagonal tomb structure in Ephesus and a skeleton preserved inside it. To this day, it remains unclear who was buried in the so called “Octagon.” Based on this spectacular discovery, Crime Scene Ephesus combines archaeology, history, and the latest scientific knowledge to create a fascinating cultural and historical panorama. Alongside the “global players” of this era – Cleopatra, her allies (and lovers) Caesar and Mark Antony, and her adversary Augustus – it offers a glimpse into an age of turmoil, splendor, and cultural achievements that continue to fascinate to this day."}
{"i":77,"title":"Bernini - Painter and Sculptor","raw":"An exhibition by the Kunsthistorisches Museum in the Palais Lobkowitz The focus of the exhibition at Palais Lobkowitz is the Portrait of an Old Man, which was previously attributed to an anonymous painter. However, recent research suggests that the painter was none other than Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Known as the designer of St Peter’s Square in Rome and for his masterful sculptures, the Italian Baroque artist Bernini was one of the most outstanding artists of his time. This new discovery from the Kunsthistorisches Museum’s collection is all the more spectacular given that only a few of his once numerous portrait paintings have survived. Around ten prominent international loans invite visitors to rediscover the great artist from a surprising and hitherto little-noticed perspective. Theatermuseum, Palais Lobkowitz Lobkowitzplatz 2, 1010 Wien Google Maps arrow_outward"}
{"i":78,"title":"Prime Time – Travelling with a Roman Portable Sundial","raw":"The special presentation Vitrine EXTRA, which periodically showcases different ancient objects as temporary additions to the permanent exhibition of the Kunsthistorisches Museum's Collection of Greek and Roman Antiquities arrow_outward , focuses in its ninth edition on a Roman Portable Sundial. This is how we learn how portable sundials worked and just how accurately – or inaccurately! – they were able to tell the time. Even in ancient times, people used the sun to measure time. A rod (gnomon) cast a shadow whose length and position varied depending on the time of day, the position of the sun, and the season. However, reading the time from a pocket sundial required more than just a gnomon and the sun. What could interchangeable discs featuring a grid of lines and place names such as Alexandria have to do with it? From 20 October, our major special exhibition Crime Scene Ephesus: Cleopatra and Rome at the Neue Hofburg/Weltmuseum Wien takes you on a journey to ancient Alexandria, Ephesus and Rome."}
{"i":79,"title":"Primeval Waters","raw":"Crossed by the only two biblical ‘rivers of paradise’ known today, whose importance and danger may have inspired the Flood myth, ancient Mesopotamia was also the place where irrigation was first invented and developed. These early experiments in mastering water through artificial transformations of the natural environment led to the invention and development of the earliest known hydraulic structures (canals, bridges, aqueducts, pipe systems, artificial lakes and more) in Mesopotamia. These resulted in wide-ranging changes to the land and its inhabitants, whose long-term consequences, both positive and negative, will be explored in the exhibition. This exhibition draws from the extensive collection of the Department of Near Eastern Antiquities, which lends itself well to this subject, and winds through the department’s galleries to raise the issue of water within the Near Eastern antiquities collection and to explore what environmental lessons can be drawn there in both the past and the present. Ariane Thomas, Director of the Department of Near Eastern Antiquities, Musée du Louvre Barbara Couturaud and Grégoire Nicolet, Department of Near Eastern Antiquities, Musée du Louvre"}
{"i":80,"title":"ZURBARÁN","raw":"Francisco de Zurbarán, along with Diego Velázquez and Bartolomé Esteban Murillo, is considered one of the greatest Spanish painters of the 17th century. At first considered a Caravaggista with a focus on monastic ascetism, he was gradually recognised in the 20th century as a prodigious colourist and celebrated for his distinctive personal style, which married a simple treatment of volumes with striking naturalism. Though Zurbarán has been the subject of numerous exhibitions over the last ten years, the last large-scale international presentation to focus on his work had been the joint exhibition Zurbarán, mounted by the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Grand Palais in 1987–1988. Now, the National Gallery, London, the Musée du Louvre and the Art Institute of Chicago have joined forces to offer their visitors a retrospective that allows them to revisit Zurbarán’s paintings (or discover them for the first time), to better understand his work and to stand in awe of the modernity and visual power of his compositions. This is not an exhaustive monographic exhibition, but rather an ambitious selection of the finest paintings, complemented by historical and cultural markers, where visitors can marvel at Zurbarán’s technique and its audacity of form and iconography. The visit, organised into seven parts, will analyse the various facets of Zurbarán’s painted oeuvre both chronologically and thematically, aiming to do justice to the whole of his long career, and occasionally stepping outside of this timeline to compare a group of similar works. The Louvre’s exhibition will place great importance on the monumental paintings, commissioned by Andalusian monasteries, on which Zurbarán’s fame was built, as well as portraits and still lifes, with a special place reserved for the brief career of his son, Juan de Zurbarán (1620–1649). A number of these works, dating from the late 19th and early 20th centuries, will highlight the significant influence Zurbarán exerted on later avant-g"}
{"i":81,"title":"SCULPTING COLOUR","raw":"‘Sculpting Colour’, presented at the same time and in the same space as the exhibition on the painter Francisco de Zurbarán (1598–1664), and with collaboratively designed scenography, invites visitors to take a close, comparative look at 17th-century Spanish sculpture. The majority of the works to be displayed are religious sculptures of stunning naturalism in polychrome wood, allowing visitors to better understand the cultural and religious context in which the great Spanish painters of the same period (such as Zurbarán, Velázquez and Murillo) produced their works – a period in which painting and sculpture were closely linked. The highlight of the exhibition will be an entire loaned paso – a traditional processional float of five life-size sculpted and painted figures from the early 17th century. This monumental ensemble by Gregorio Fernández, a major sculptor then active in Valladolid, will be presented at eye level so visitors can have a close look. The visit will unfold along a number of thematic axes: the veneration of relics and the role of intercessory saints; the dressing of statues; depictions of the sufferings of Christ and of the Virgin Mary; private devotion; and the Immaculate Conception. In so doing, the exhibition will allow visitors to explore the sculptures’ various uses and meanings and to gain a deeper understanding of their materiality, their regional and stylistic variations, and the personalities of the major sculptors of the time. Active from Castile to Andalusia, they include Gregorio Fernández, Alonso Cano, Juan de Mesa, José de Mora, Pedro de Mena, Jerónimo Francisco García and Miguel Jerónimo García, José de Arce, as well as Pedro Roldán and Luisa Roldán – one of the rare female artists with a career so successful it carried her all the way to the royal court of Spain. In addition to the paso entitled Road to Calvary – one of the most significant loans of the exhibition, never before seen in France – works displayed will include Gregorio F"}
{"i":82,"title":"LOUVRE PHOTO","raw":"The Louvre opened just a few decades before the invention of photography. Combining reality and the world of imagination, journeying through both time and space, the museum would go on to become a wellspring of inspiration for those who practised this new art form. This exhibition ‘Louvre Photo’ takes the Louvre as a model, a subject, a source of inspiration and a starting point for reinvention. Through more than 300 photos of the Louvre – its artworks, its exhibition galleries and its open spaces, as well as visitors both famous and anonymous, museum workers, hidden nooks and behind-the-scenes corridors – ‘Louvre Photo’ invites visitors to explore and uncover, taking a step back and offering a new look at the museum, the institution and its collections – sometimes with a touch of humour and subversiveness. ‘Louvre Photo’ covers the long period spanning from the invention of photography until today, from the first photographers to those invited to photograph the museum in modern times – most recently Robert Polidori. This was a period characterised by momentous events, like the Paris Commune, the First and Second World Wars, and the expansion of tourism and diplomatic relations during the Trente Glorieuses, the thirty-year span of economic prosperity that France enjoyed from 1945 to 1975. In that same time, the Louvre’s history was marked by several milestones, such as its transformation from a palace into a museum under the Second Empire, the displacement and then return of its artworks during the First and Second World Wars, and the Grand Louvre works of the 1980s. ‘Louvre Photo’ limits its subject to a single setting, delimited by the walls of the palace and the gates of the Tuileries Garden. The exhibition will bring out the Louvre’s wealth of photographic archives from its curatorial departments and active documentary records, as well as collections from various French institutions, including the National Archives, the Médiathèque du Patrimoine et de la Photogr"}
{"i":83,"title":"AFFINITIES","raw":"Affinities are bonds of both kinship and closeness – a fitting term to evoke the relationship between the Departments of Islamic Art and of the Decorative Arts. These works have not only circulated between East and West since the Middle Ages; their techniques and decoration have served as sources of inspiration for European decorative arts. For over a century, Islamic art was displayed in the Department of Decorative Arts – a dialogue we are proposing to rekindle today by exploring three subjects: light, colour and sculpture. Inviting visitors to wander through the decorative arts galleries, Affinities weaves a tale of great technical and aesthetic innovations in the Islamic world, as well as the fascination they engendered in Europe and in French art collections. Some 50 objects from the Department of Islamic Art, made of a wide range of materials, dating from the 9th to the 17th century and hailing from all regions of the Islamic world, allows visitors to explore the enchantment created by materials and the wonder elicited by objects in the region. They are in fact linked to wonders – ‘Aja’īb in Arabic, designating the wonders of nature and of the visual arts. This exhibition is taking place in the context of the Department of Islamic Art closing for refurbishment, enabling the public to access some of the most important pieces of the Islamic art collection. Annabelle Collinet, Researcher and Collection Manager, Department of Islamic Art"}
{"i":84,"title":"MICHEL LACOSTE’S DONATION TO THE MUSÉE DU LOUVRE","raw":"Thanks to the generosity of Michel Lacoste, a hundred precious metalwork pieces entered the collection of the Musée du Louvre in November 2025 through a planned donation of present assets. These varied artworks demonstrate the technical skill and refinement that characterised precious metalworks in France from the 16th to the 18th century. Over the course of six months, an exceptional exhibition in room 605 of the Department of Decorative Arts will present them alongside the Louvre’s collection of silver- and ceramic ware. These hundred works represent about a quarter of the collection amassed since the 2000s by Michel Lacoste, whose passion for precious metalwork was initiated by his maternal grandmother’s gift of the Puiforcat collection sales catalogue. Planned in 1955, this major auction never occurred, as the Greek shipping magnate Stavros Niarchos purchased a vast majority of the lots on offer to deed them subject to usufruct to the Musée du Louvre. Now wishing to share his passion for this type of artwork with the general public, to gift these pieces to future generations and to do his part in enriching the national collections, Michel Lacoste is giving part of his collection to the Musée du Louvre. This choice appeared as evident as the museum is home to the majority of the Puiforcat collection. Of the hundred pieces, one is from the 16th century, 22 from the 17th, 76 from the 18th and one from the 20th. This gift comes to significantly increase the 17th century collection, supplementing it with pieces both from Paris and other French regions, and brings into the museum several master metalworkers such as Jean-Baptiste Chéret, Pierre-François Bonnestrenne and Joseph-Théodore Vancombert for the first time, while completing the existing opus of some of the great master such as Nicolas Delaunay, Claude II Ballin, François-Thomas Germain and Jacques-Nicolas Roëttiers, to cite but a few. Anne Foray-Carlier, Senior Heritage Curator, Department of Decorative Arts."}
{"i":85,"title":"HOSTS AT THE LOUVRE","raw":"Kader Attia and Elizabeth Peyton are the 2024–2026 Hosts at the Louvre. Kader Attia (born 1970 in Dugny, France; lives and works in Paris and Berlin) is known for his work at the frontier of shape and thought, between logical inquiry and contemporary ideas. Elizabeth Peyton (born 1965 in Connecticut, United States; lives and works in Paris and New York) brings vibrant life to painting through the art of portraiture. For two years, they inhabited the spaces – both physical and imaginary – of the Louvre. Each had a studio on the premises, where they created, conversed with museum personnel, and engaged with the public. Previously studio neighbours, they now share the temporary exhibition space in the Salle de la Chapelle, where the results of their respective sojourns in the museum are on display for all to see. For Attia, this means a film and an installation inspired by his own intimate meanderings in the Louvre, contemplating the fluctuations of ages, memories, and gazes, turning his own vision into a subject. For Peyton, it means paintings and drawings: a mixture of reinterpretations of works from the Louvre, which she has been creating since her early years as an artist, and representations of historic and contemporary subjects, made in her studio in the museum. Their intersecting interpretations of the Louvre make manifest the wealth of resources to be found in the museum and in the works it houses, which serve as a source of inspiration to artists and visitors alike."}
{"i":86,"title":"MICHELANGELO RODIN","raw":"Michelangelo and Rodin, in making the body the central subject of their artworks, showed that they both perceived it as animated by an intense inner life. Michelangelo and Rodin, two unrivalled masters of Western sculpture, engage in a dialogue across the centuries. Their works, emblematic of the strength of the body and the depth of the soul, are here brought together for the first time, revealing a continuum between the two artists, marked by clear divisions. Organised into five sections – Two Legendary Artists; Nature and Antiquity: Reinventing the Model; Non Finito; Bodies and Souls; and Energy and Life –, the exhibition associates marble, bronze, plaster, terracotta and cast works with a rich pictorial production. The exhibition route highlights the issues of form and concept that drove the same ambition in both artists: to make manifest the body’s inner energy. The body is thus revealed as the membrane that envelops the soul, a living thing weathering time and movement. We also explore the historic uses of motion in sculpture: how did the reinvention of antiquity and the ways bodies were used foreshadow the divisions of the 20th century? Calling attention to the connections, borrowings and reinterpretations to be found in the works of Michelangelo and Rodin, the exhibition gives a close reading of the myths surrounding these two masters and proposes a new perspective on sculpture not as the making of forms, but as a laboratory for breaking new artistic ground."}
{"i":87,"title":"MARTIN SCHONGAUER","raw":"Martin Schongauer was one of the most popular Germanic artists of the late Middle Ages – and one of the major figures of this period. Born in Colmar around 1445, Schongauer died in Alt-Breisach in 1491. He was the master of a painting workshop but was best known, even during his lifetime, for his engraving work. While his father and brothers were goldsmiths, he did not practise their craft; it is however likely that he learned to handle the burin in his father’s workshop, a delicate art that he brought to the height of perfection. The exhibition presents a wide selection of his drawings and engravings and, for the first time, a near-complete collection of his paintings (altarpieces and easel paintings), including the 1473 Madonna of the Rose Bower, his only painting on panel whose date of creation is known. His works reveal a well-read artist with a penchant for fine, inventive storytelling and a skilful eye for natural subjects. Martin Schongauer’s engravings were widely circulated and appealed to generations of artists. Artworks from every discipline are brought together in the second half of the exhibition, hailing from all over the European continent and dating up to the start of the 17th century, attesting to the wide-ranging reception his work enjoyed. Pantxika Béguerie De Paepe, Honorary Curator of the Musée Unterlinden. Hélène Grollemund, Musée du Louvre."}
{"i":88,"title":"THE CARRACCI DRAWINGS","raw":"Completed at the very beginning of the 17th century, a decorative interior in the heart of the Palazzo Farnese — the current seat of the French Embassy in Italy — would come to be regarded as one of the greatest masterpieces of Western painting. The work in question is the gallery decorated by Annibale Carracci, his brother Agostino, and their students. The Farnese Gallery drew admiration far and wide and inspired the work of many artists due to the beauty of its frescoes as well as that of its preparatory drawings. The Musée du Louvre is moving the Farnese Gallery to Paris, where the most extraordinary collection of preparatory drawings ever assembled will recreate the gallery in the manner of a jigsaw puzzle. The immersive exhibition design reproducing the gallery’s vault will also include a second ceiling: that of the Camerino, a small room Annibale Carracci was given to test his designs. The exhibition aims to give visitors a closer look at the engaging character of the work’s key architect, Annibale Carracci. The Farnese Gallery drawings and other sheets Annibale completed before leaving for Rome will highlight the 34-year-old artist’s determination to bring about a stylistic and intellectual revival. Never before had so many drawings for a painted interior been preserved, from the rapid sketch outlining the artist's initial ideas to the large cartoon measuring several metres per side, which contains a full-scale drawing of the fresco. Victor Hundsbuckler, Curator, Department of Prints and Drawings, Musée du Louvre."}
{"i":89,"title":"JACQUES-LOUIS DAVID","raw":"David is a towering figure. Considered the father of the French School, revered for breathing new life into painting, he produced imagery that to this day inhabits the collective imagination: from The Death of Marat to Napoleon Crossing the Alps and The Coronation of Napoleon, his paintings are the filter through which we picture the great moments of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Empire, while his portraits bring to life the society of this period. To mark the bicentennial of his death in exile in Brussels in 1825, the Musée du Louvre is offering a new perspective on a figure and body of work of extraordinary richness and diversity. The exhibition shines a light on the inventive force and expressive power of the art of Jacques-Louis David (1748–1825), whose paintings are more intensely charged with feeling than is belied by their extreme rigour. The exhibition spans the long career of an artist who witnessed six different political regimes and actively participated in the French Revolution. It gathers 100 works on special loan, including the imposing, incomplete Tennis Court Oath (Château de Versailles, long-term loan from the Musée du Louvre), and the original version of his masterpiece, the celebrated Death of Marat (Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium, Brussels). A project of such ambition could only be undertaken at the Louvre, which holds the largest existing collection of the artist's paintings and drawings – including, first and foremost, his very large canvasses. The last major monographic exhibition devoted to David was held at the Louvre and the Château de Versailles in 1989 for bicentennial commemorations of the French Revolution."}
{"i":90,"title":"THE MET AT THE LOUVRE","raw":"The Louvre’s Department of Near Eastern Antiquities is hosting ten major works from New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art, whose Department of Ancient Near Eastern Art is currently closed for renovation. The Louvre and The Met have created a unique dialogue between these two collections, which is displayed in the Louvre’s permanent galleries. These ‘special guest’ artworks from The Met, dating from between the late 4th millennium BC and the 5th century AD, show some remarkable connections with the Louvre’s collection. In some cases, a pair of objects has been reunited for the first time, while in others, pieces complement each other by virtue of specific historical features of their respective collections. Representing Central Asia, Syria, Iran and Mesopotamia, this dialogue between collections is (re)introducing visitors to these extraordinary, age-old works of art and the stories they tell."}
{"i":91,"title":"A PASSION FOR CHINA","raw":"A relatively little-known fact: Chinese art can be found at the Louvre. The Department of Decorative Arts holds more than 600 Chinese works, most of which come from the collections of Adolphe Thiers and Adèle de Rothschild and from the royal collections. Among them, some veritable treasures are to be found. A number of these were highlighted by recent research among the collection of Adolphe Thiers, who was a journalist, historian, and a major political figure in the 19th century (as deputy, minister, president of the council and, ultimately, president of the French Republic). The exhibition aims to reveal these exceptional works to the general public, putting them in the historical, diplomatic and cultural context of their creation and their acquisition by Thiers for his collection. It explores Thiers’s little-known passion for China. The exhibition will present over 170 works dating mainly from the 18th and 19th centuries: scrolls, album pages, engravings, prints, porcelains, jades, lacquers, and precious objets d’art in ivory, bronze, or wood inlaid with gems and mother-of-pearl. The first part of the exhibition will present Adolphe Thiers, his particular vision of art, his collecting practices and his passion for the Renaissance. The second part, the heart of the exhibition, will present the full collection of Chinese art. Thiers, in view of publishing a work on Chinese art, concurrently collected books, documents and objets d’art related to the subject. The exhibition highlights the major themes of his collection: ancient and contemporary history, images of China (landscapes, architecture and dress), some staples of Chinese culture (language, literature and the literati), the ‘Three Teachings’ (Buddhism, Taoism and Confucianism), Chinese porcelain (of which he was an expert of renown), and, finally, imperial art. The collection holds a number of masterpieces in this last area, including an exceptional scroll, the Qingming shanghe tu created for the Qianlong emp"}
{"i":92,"title":"LOUVRE COUTURE","raw":"Although we have known since the days of Paul Cézanne that ‘the Louvre is the book from which we learn to read’, this inexhaustible wellspring of inspiration has also nourished one of contemporary art’s liveliest domains: the world of fashion. More and more, research and monographs dedicated to the greats of fashion have boldly begun to trace aesthetic family trees, establishing these figures in a historical and artistic context. The pattern is not merely one of disruptions, with various degrees of radical innovation, or of seasonal changes, but also one of echoes and evocations. The threads weaving their way between the work of great fashion figures and the world of art are almost endless, and the history of art as expressed by the Musée du Louvre, in the depth of its collections and in the ways it reflects the tastes of days gone by, is an equally vast terrain of influences and sources. In consideration of the Louvre’s encyclopaedic immensity, this exhibition follows a methodological approach geared towards exploring the history of decorative styles, art professions and ornamentation through the galleries of the Department of Decorative Arts, where textiles are omnipresent – though generally in tapestries and other décor items rather than in articles of clothing. Over a nearly 9,000-square-metre space, 65 designs are displayed, along with a number of accessories, newly illuminating the close historical dialogue that continues to take place between the world of fashion and the department’s greatest masterpieces, from Byzantium to the Second Empire. Each of these garments and accessories is on special loan from the most iconic fashion houses, both long-standing and recent, in Paris and throughout the world. The pieces will not be displayed aimlessly throughout the Department of Decorative Arts, but rather will serve as an occasion to highlight existing parallels: the department owes part of its collection to the generosity of great fashion figures, from Jacques Douc"}
{"i":93,"title":"MAMLUKS","raw":"The Musée du Louvre marks a European first with a major exhibition on the Mamluk sultanate (1250–1517), aiming to address this golden age of the Islamic Near East in all its scope and richness by examining it from a transregional perspective. The Mamluks, freed slave-soldiers of primarily Turkish (and later Caucasian) origin, built their legend on their warrior prowess. From 1250 to 1517, the Mamluk sultanate conquered the last bastions of the Crusaders, fought and repulsed the Mongol threat, survived Timur’s invasions and kept its threatening Turkmen and Ottoman neighbours at bay before succumbing to the latter’s expansionism. It encompassed a vast territory including Egypt, Bilad al-Sham (Syria, Libya, Israel/Palestine, Jordan), part of eastern Anatolia and the Hejaz region of Arabia, which includes Mecca and Medina. But the history of the Mamluk sultanate cannot be reduced to its conquests and feats of arms. Its culture, as complex and multifaceted as its society, was part of a little-known and singularly fluid medieval era. A world in which sultans mingled with emirs and rich civil elites, all actively engaged in artistic patronage. A pluralistic society in which women as well as Christian and Jewish minorities had a place. Another ‘Middle Kingdom’ where Europe, Africa and Asia converged and in which people and ideas circulated, as did merchandise and artistic repertoires. Structured in five sections (the Mamluks, their society, their cultures, their connections with the rest of the world and their art), the exhibition presents nearly 260 works, a third of which are from the Louvre and the Musée des Arts Décoratifs, featured beside prestigious national and international loans. Textiles, objets d’art, manuscripts, paintings, ivories, stone and wood interior décors reveal a teeming artistic, literary, religious and scientific world. The sultanate was then the cultural heart of the Arab world and the heir to a number of grand traditions. Mamluk visual culture would"}
{"i":94,"title":"THE EXPERIENCE OF NATURE","raw":"The Holy Roman Emperor Rudolf II (1552–1612), a great patron of the arts and sciences, was one of the European rulers most keenly interested in the study of nature. He summoned scientists and artists from throughout Europe to his court, where they worked in close proximity to each other within the castle walls, turning Prague into a veritable laboratory, a place of experimentation, in a propitious climate of intellectual and religious tolerance. The first part of the exhibition will present this convergence of scientific and artistic perspectives on nature, particularly acute at the Prague court. It was characterised, first of all, by a new approach, which was both direct and observational. Artists participated actively in the earliest stirrings of empiricism, not only in producing scientific instruments that were as aesthetically pleasing as they were innovative, but also in recording the world of plants and animals through their drawings, a major contribution to the inventory of living species then being undertaken in the natural sciences. Like their scientist peers, they were interested in the hidden forces at work in nature, which they expressed through the device of allegory. All shared the same humanist culture, generally acquired through books and inherited from antiquity. Yet the coherent system described in these earlier works did not stand up to the attentive observation of an impermanent, capricious natural world. The second part of the exhibition will show how this curiosity about the forms of nature, common to both scientists and artists, contributed to the renewal of artistic creation in Prague. New practices such as drawing en plein air came into vogue, and this direct experience of nature encouraged artists to experiment with new materials and subjects, including many that had previously been considered unworthy of being used or depicted. A taste developed for new artistic techniques imitating the singularity of natural forms and evoking the instabil"}
{"i":96,"title":"GUILLON-LETHIÈRE, \"BORN IN GUADELOUPE\"","raw":"This show, co-organised by the Clark Art Institute in Williamstown (Massachusetts) and the Musée du Louvre, will be the first major monographic exhibition on an artist who has largely faded from view but was counted among the ‘great authorities of his day’ (Charles Blanc). Guillaume Guillon-Lethière was born in Guadeloupe. His mother was a freed slave of African origin, his father a white French royal official. Guillaume studied first in Rouen and then in Paris during the ancien régime and went on to enjoy a brilliant career: director of the French Academy in Rome (1807–1816), elected member of the Institut de France in 1818 and professor at the École des Beaux-Arts from 1819 onwards. He was also a great collector and artistic advisor to Lucien Bonaparte. His artwork reflects his experience of the political upheaval of the period and the succession of political regimes in France from the Revolution to the July Monarchy. Most of his paintings and drawings focus on ancient history. He began his career in a period dominated by the neoclassical style of Jacques-Louis David; his continuation in the classical vein led to his fall from favour in the late 1820s, as the upcoming generation of Romantic artists began taking over. The Louvre’s collection includes two huge paintings by Guillon-Lethière, both measuring almost eight metres in width and inspired by classical heroism: Brutus Condemning his Sons to Death, finished in Rome in 1811, and The Death of Virginia (1828)."}
{"i":97,"title":"A NEW LOOK AT WATTEAU","raw":"\"The Louvre’s enigmatic painting par excellence.\" These are the words that the painter and writer Bernard Dufour used to describe Pierrot, long known as Gilles, by Antoine Watteau (1684–1721). Though this strange character, dressed in white from top to toe, cuts a familiar, even iconic figure, this is a work of absolute originality. From its history to its composition, from its format to its iconography, everything about this piece captivates and intrigues. Its origins remain unknown; the first confirmed mention of its existence only dates back to 1826. Interpreting this painting, inspired by the world of theatre and particularly by Pierrot, the most famous comedy character of this period, is also a difficult task. Thanks to recent conservation work carried out at the Centre for Research and Restoration of Museums of France (C2RMF), which has restored the painting to its former glory, the Musée du Louvre is finally able to give it the monographic exhibition it so richly deserves. The exhibition will explore this mysterious masterpiece, placing it back into the context of theatre life at the start of the 18th century and of the artworks produced by Watteau and his contemporaries. It will also touch on the fascination that Gilles has inspired all the way to the present day, influencing creators of all backgrounds from Fragonard to Picasso to Nadar, from André Derain to Marcel Carné. Each of these painters, authors, actors, photographers and filmmakers made a talented attempt at solving its captivating riddle. The exhibition presents sixty-five works (paintings, drawings, engravings, books, photographs and film excerpts), including seven paintings by Watteau, thanks to the support of various French, European and American museums, including the Bibliothèque Nationale de France, the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin, the Wallace Collection and the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. Standing as an eternally blank page in spite of countless interpretations, Pierrot is stil"}
{"i":99,"title":"MASTERPIECES FROM THE TORLONIA COLLECTION","raw":"The largest ever private collection of ancient Roman sculptures, assembled throughout the 19thcentury by the Torlonia princes in Rome, is being shown to the public for the first time since the mid-20th century in a series of special exhibitions. The Louvre will have the privilege of hosting the Torlonia marbles for their first showing outside Italy, in the renovated summer apartments of Anne of Austria – home to the museum’s permanent collection of ancient sculpture since its creation in the late 18th century. Displaying the Torlonia marbles alongside the French national collection will shed new light on the origin of museums and the interest in antiquity – a founding element of Western culture. Showcasing masterpieces of ancient sculpture, the exhibition will present some truly exquisite treasures of Roman art and explore the origins of museums in Europe during the Enlightenment and the 19th century."}
{"i":100,"title":"OLYMPISM","raw":"Among the cultural events designed to accompany the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris is an exhibition at the Louvre on the creation of the first modern Olympic Games. Visitors will discover how the Games came into being in the late 19th century: the political context of the time, the iconographic sources on which they were based, and how the organisers set out to recreate the sporting competitions of ancient Greece. The exhibition sheds light on the origins of the world’s largest and most-watched sporting competition. This international event was the brainchild of Pierre de Coubertin and a number of French and Greek luminaries, who were later joined by Swiss draughtsman Émile Gilliéron (1850-1924). Gilliéron trained at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, and was a frequent visitor to the Louvre, where he copied a number of its masterpieces. Having settled in Greece, he was named the official artist of the 1896 Olympic Games and of the 1906 Mesolympics, both held in Athens, for which he designed the winners’ trophies, inspired by discoveries made at the major archaeological excavation sites of the period. Using the latest reproduction techniques of his time, the artist illustrated communication materials – in particular postage stamps and posters – for the newly formed Greek state. Thanks to a special loan from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF), the Louvre will exhibit the first Olympic Cup, known as ‘Bréal’s Cup’, designed by French academic Michel Bréal and created by a French silversmith for the winner of the first marathon – a race invented for the modern Olympic Games. As part of the programme of cultural events accompanying the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games, the exhibition will show how the scientific disciplines of philology, history, art history and archaeology came together to create this global sporting event."}
{"i":101,"title":"Wall Drawing Series: Jitish Kallat","raw":"The Menil Collection has commissioned artist Jitish Kallat to create a site-specific wall drawing for the entry space of the Menil Drawing Institute. Born in Mumbai, where he continues to live and work, Kallat is a leading figure in contemporary Indian art. His work often probes the intersections of the intimate and the immense, weaving together references to history, science, philosophy, and the cosmic scale of time. Wall Drawing Series: Jitish Kallat is curated by Edouard Kopp, John R. Eckel, Jr. Foundation Chief Curator, Menil Drawing Institute. The series began in 2018 as part of the Institute’s commitment to seeking new approaches to the form and language of drawing. Past participants include Marc Bauer, Mel Bochner, Roni Horn, Marcia Kure, Gladys Nilsson, Ronny Quevedo, and Jorinde Voigt. Over the past three decades, Jitish Kallat has developed a multifaceted practice spanning drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, and time-based media. A recurring approach in his work involves shifting focal lengths across space and time, from the intimate to the cosmic and the present to the historic. Kallat has presented solo exhibitions at the Art Institute of Chicago, the Art Gallery of New South Wales (Sydney), the Frist Art Museum (Nashville), the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and the National Gallery of Modern Art (New Delhi). His work has also been presented at Tate Modern (London), Martin-Gropius-Bau (Berlin), and Mori Art Museum (Tokyo) and at the biennales of Venice, Gwangju, Havana, Bangkok, Curitiba, and Kyiv. Having served as curator and artistic director of the 2014 edition, Kallat is currently president of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale."}
{"i":102,"title":"Fragility","raw":"This display highlights paper itself—and its incongruous and variable characteristics—as an artistic material. Included are works that present a range of processes, as well as paper sculptures and found papers that imbue a finished work with an additional sense of history and place. Among the artists featured in the exhibition, Lee Krasner relentlessly critiqued her own art, often destroying drawings only to reconstitute them as abstract collages. Ann Hamilton also brought papers together in surprising ways. In her collaborative work poche, 2014, she stitched soft wool between sheets of handmade paper to reflect on the pocket as both storage and protection for the body. Zarina grieved the loss of her husband and her native India by painstakingly puncturing paper with a needle to form intricate compositions. Fragility is curated by Kelly Montana, Associate Curator, Menil Drawing Institute. The exhibition features works that highlight the delicate yet resilient characteristics of the medium of paper"}
{"i":103,"title":"John Akomfrah: The Hour Of The Dog","raw":"John Akomfrah: The Hour Of The Dog is an immersive, six-channel video installation by the British artist Sir John Akomfrah. The work, co-commissioned by the Menil Collection and the Baltimore Museum of Art (BMA), explores the history of youth-led Civil Rights–era activism in the American South from 1954 to 1963, and how the participants fought for racial equity through nonviolent marches, protests, boycotts, and voter registration efforts. Runtime: 51 minutes. The Hour Of The Dog begins every hour on the hour. The final screening each day starts at 6 p.m. Activism is not confined to what happens in the streets; it’s bound up with who and how we remember, who and how we mourn, and how we dream forward. John Akomfrah: The Hour Of The Dog is co-curated by Michelle White, Senior Curator, The Menil Collection, and Cecilia Wichmann, BMA Curator and Department Head of Contemporary Art, with Oscar Flores-Montero, BMA Curatorial Assistant of Contemporary Art."}
{"i":104,"title":"Foyer Installation: Mel Bochner, Chryssa, and Dorothy Hood","raw":"Explore a selection of works from the museum's permanent collection by artists Mel Bochner, Chryssa, and Dorothy Hood in the foyer."}
{"i":105,"title":"Southern Outsider Artists","raw":"In the main building hallway galleries, explore an installation of work by self-taught artists from the American South. The display includes paintings by Thornton Dial and Johnnie Swearingen, and assemblage sculptures by Hawkins Bolden, David Butler, and Bessie Harvey."}