=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":150,"title":"Individuality and Identity: Naming Sitters in French Portrait Drawings","raw":"This exhibition explores stories of (mis)identification in drawings by some of nineteenth-century France’s most renowned artists and their followers, including Théodore Chassériau, Charles Damour, Eugène Delacroix, Joseph Ducreux, Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, and Léon Louis Antoine Riesener, examining portraiture’s powers and limitations in capturing histories, personalities, and identities."}
{"i":151,"title":"Charles Dickens's A Christmas Carol","raw":"Every holiday season, the Morgan displays Charles Dickens's original manuscript of A Christmas Carol in J. Pierpont Morgan's Library."}
{"i":152,"title":"Franz Kafka","raw":"When Franz Kafka died of tuberculosis at the age of forty, in 1924, few could have predicted the influence his relatively small body of work would have on every realm of thought and creative endeavor over the course of the twentieth century and into the twenty-first."}
{"i":153,"title":"Belle da Costa Greene: A Librarian's Legacy","raw":"To mark the 2024 centenary of its life as a public institution, the Morgan Library & Museum will present a major exhibition devoted to the life and career of its inaugural director, Belle da Costa Greene (1879–1950)."}
{"i":154,"title":"Entering the Oil Sketch","raw":"Eighteenth- and nineteenth-century landscape artists often sketched outdoors in oil paint on paper to capture nature from direct observation. Yet as natural as these scenes look, the vantages were chosen or augmented to draw the viewer into the composition."}
{"i":155,"title":"A Social Medium: Collaboration in Photography","raw":"One camera, one viewfinder: photography is often understood as a solitary practice. Throughout the medium’s history, however, artists have challenged the notion of one-person authorship."}
{"i":156,"title":"Recent Acquisitions in the Clement C. Moore Collection","raw":"The exhibition Far and Away: Drawings from the Clement C. Moore Collection, on view upstairs, celebrates the promised gift of works to the Morgan from one of the preeminent private collections of Dutch drawings in America."}
{"i":157,"title":"Crafting the Ballets Russes: The Robert Owen Lehman Collection","raw":"Robert Owen Lehman’s extraordinary collection of music manuscripts has been an inspiration to scholars and visitors since it was placed on deposit at the Morgan Library & Museum."}
{"i":158,"title":"Far and Away: Drawings from the Clement C. Moore Collection","raw":"The drawings assembled by Clement C. (Chips) Moore constitute one of the preeminent collections of Dutch drawings in private hands."}
{"i":159,"title":"Liberty to the Imagination: Drawings from the Eveillard Gift","raw":"The Morgan celebrates the 100th year of its founding with a series of exhibitions devoted to promised gifts to the museum, including twenty-eight drawings from the holdings of New York–based collectors Elizabeth and Jean-Marie Eveillard."}
{"i":160,"title":"Recent Acquisitions","raw":"The Morgan’s collections continually grow and evolve. This presentation features a selection of drawings newly acquired by the Department of Drawings and Prints, which focuses on work created before 1900."}
{"i":161,"title":"Walton Ford: Birds and Beasts of the Studio","raw":"American artist Walton Ford (b. 1960) established his reputation in the 1990s with his monumental watercolor paintings of wild animals inspired by true or legendary stories of dramatic encounters between humankind and nature."}
{"i":162,"title":"Capturing Atmosphere: European Nature Studies in Oil","raw":"To eighteenth- and nineteenth-century European artists, the ephemeral qualities of weather and light were as integral to their landscape paintings as the terrain itself."}
{"i":163,"title":"Renoir Drawings","raw":"This exhibition explores the ways in which Renoir used paper to test ideas, plan compositions, and interpret both landscape and the human figure."}
{"i":164,"title":"Sing a New Song: The Psalms in Medieval Art and Life","raw":"Sing a New Song traces the impact of the Psalms on men and women in medieval Europe from the sixth to the sixteenth century."}
{"i":165,"title":"Mavericks of Malcontent: Beat Generation Broadsides","raw":"In the 1950s the young, provocative writers now known as the Beat Generation emerged onto the American literary scene. Heavily inspired by European Surrealism and the jazz culture of Black America, the Beats were experimental and politically dissident in both their lifestyles and written work."}
{"i":166,"title":"Lisa Yuskavage: Drawings","raw":"One of the most original and influential artists of the past three decades, Lisa Yuskavage (American b. 1962) creates works that affirm the integrity of her media (painting, drawing and printmaking) while challenging conventional art historical precedents."}
{"i":167,"title":"Giuseppe Penone: Arboreal Interventions","raw":"As a part of the exhibition A Celebration: Acquisitions in Honor of the Morgan’s Centennial, on view through August 17, this selection highlights a group of drawings gifted to the museum by the artist Giuseppe Penone."}
{"i":168,"title":"A Lively Mind: Jane Austen at 250","raw":"A Lively Mind immerses viewers in the inspiring story of Jane Austen’s authorship and her gradual rise to international fame. Iconic artifacts from Jane Austen’s House in Chawton, England join manuscripts, books, and artworks from the Morgan, as well as from a dozen institutional and private collections, to present compelling new perspectives on Austen’s literary achievement, her personal style, and her global legacy."}
{"i":169,"title":"Arresting Beauty: Julia Margaret Cameron","raw":"“I longed to arrest all beauty that came before me, and at length the longing has been satisfied.” —Julia Margaret Cameron"}
{"i":170,"title":"Chopin's Newly Discovered Waltz","raw":"This previously unknown waltz, written in Chopin’s hand and very likely composed by him, is the first newly identified work by the Polish composer since the 1930s."}
{"i":171,"title":"Weathering the Storm","raw":"By the early nineteenth century, artists throughout Europe had grown increasingly interested in depicting the weather."}
{"i":172,"title":"A Celebration: Acquisitions in Honor of the Morgan's Centennial","raw":"In the century since its founding as a public institution, the Morgan’s collections have grown dramatically, deepening the core assembled by J. Pierpont Morgan and his librarian, Belle da Costa Greene, who became the first Director of the institution."}
{"i":173,"title":"Cut and Paste: Reframing Medieval Art","raw":"The idea of cutting up a medieval manuscript is almost unthinkable today. Historically, however, this practice was relatively common, and it reached a fever pitch in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries."}
{"i":174,"title":"The Book of Marvels: Imagining the Medieval World","raw":"From the tales of famous travelers like Marco Polo and Alexander the Great to the ancient encyclopedias of Pliny and Isidore, medieval conceptions of the world were often based more on authoritative tradition than direct observation."}
{"i":175,"title":"Peggy Weil: Core Memory","raw":"“The pace of climate change is too slow to apprehend,” says artist Peggy Weil, “and its substances—gases like methane and CO2—are invisible.” A trailblazer of digital art, Weil has recently turned her attention to what she calls Extended Landscapes: portraits of the invisible layers “beneath our feet, above our heads, and back in time.” Her work reveals the planet to be a recording device, inscribing climatic and geological events into polar ice sheets and sedimentary strata. Core Memory brings two of Peggy Weil’s “underscapes” to the immersive 24-foot screen in MoMA’s lobby. From the youngest snow to the oldest ice, 88 Cores descends two miles and 110,000 years through Greenland’s ice sheet, where time is preserved in vertical bands of ice, air, and gas. In 18 Cores, Weil shifts from polar cold to geothermal heat, assembling images of rock cores extracted from California’s Salton Sea between 1985 and 1986. This film reveals a subterranean landscape of shales, siltstones, and sandstones dating to the Pleistocene era. Through these vertical time capsules, Weil makes the physical evidence of environmental shifts perceptible and undeniable."}
{"i":176,"title":"Sarah Michelson: nowhere","raw":"What is dance? Across a career spanning 30 years, Sarah Michelson has tirelessly explored this question. Born in Manchester, England, and based in New York, since the 1990s Michelson has created performances that examine the historical, physical, and intellectual nature of dance. Known for her meticulous choreography, Michelson continuously reimagines the boundaries of contemporary performance; her recent work has incorporated painting, video projection, and sound. “The place where the work will happen is pretty much always my starting point,” says Michelson, who began creating nowhere during a Studio Residency at MoMA in 2024. In this exhibition, she performs alongside a rotating cast of dancers. Treating the Donald and Catherine Marron Family Atrium as her daily workspace, Michelson integrates her dancing, thinking, and being into the life of the Museum. nowhere is a daily dance. It will be on view in the Marron Family Atrium Saturday through Thursday throughout the course of the exhibition. On Fridays during Museum hours, the Atrium will be an open space for dance makers, arts workers, and everyone, hosted by Michelson and guests. Let’s hang out. No advance registration is required."}
{"i":177,"title":"Pierre Huyghe: UUmwelt","raw":"At a time when AI is dramatically changing how we see, what does it mean to visualize a world that’s no longer centered on the human mind? Pierre Huyghe’s immersive, otherworldly works have redefined how art can engage with technology, human consciousness, and the natural environment. UUmwelt, presented on freestanding screens throughout the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, uses machine learning to explore what it might look like if nonhuman entities could reconstruct our thoughts. Working with a team of neuroscientists in Kyoto, Japan, Huyghe asked a human subject to imagine a set of images while an fMRI scanner recorded their brain activity. An artificial neural network then used the data from the scans to generate thousands of visual interpretations of what they might have imagined. Hallucinatory and fragmentary, these indeterminate mental images reveal the neural network’s attempts to interpret and refine the data while conjuring a reality different from our own. The work is activated in real time by the gazes of visitors to the Sculpture Garden (which are detected by a sensor) and data collected from virtual simulations of cancer cell mutations. These inputs determine the creation of new images and their sequencing on the screens, drawing metaphorical connections between the limitless proliferation enabled by algorithmic systems and metastatic growth. The title is a riff on the German scientific term umwelt (environment), referring to the idea that every species perceives the world according to its distinct physical characteristics. The extra “U” complicates this idea, proposing an unstable environment in which the boundaries between human and machine cognition begin to dissolve, producing what Huyghe calls “a collective production of imagination between two kinds of intelligences.” Art becomes an open-ended ecosystem that invites new encounters and exchanges between people, biological systems, and machines."}
{"i":178,"title":"Architects of Liberation: Modernism in Western Africa","raw":"During the unprecedented period of liberation and decolonization across Africa, many dreamed of a continent with a boundless future. Ghana gained independence from British rule in 1957, and in 1960—often called the Year of Africa—17 nations struggling for self-determination achieved political autonomy. This upheaval ushered in a boom in cultural production and experimentation in visual art, dance, and music. Architects of Liberation: Modernism in Western Africa is the first major museum exhibition to examine the role of architecture in shaping this historic change. Newly independent African countries wanted to project—both inward and outward—a forward-looking, progressive, and cosmopolitan self-image, and modern architecture embodied this aspiration. A new architectural identity engaged with the political ideas of Pan-Africanism and Africanization, and was shaped by architects both from the continent and abroad. Architectural drawings, models, and archival images, as well as newly commissioned site-specific photographs and videos, are among the exhibition’s 400 objects. Nearly all are being shown publicly for the first time. Spanning Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, and Cameroon, Architects of Liberation is a revealing look at a region reimagining its future."}
{"i":179,"title":"Odili Donald Odita: Songs from Life","raw":"In Odili Donald Odita’s new large-scale commission in MoMA’s lobby, bright colors and abstract patterns create a cascading kaleidoscope. And for the first time in the artist’s unfolding process, music serves as the primary source of inspiration. “Music inspires me to think through problems in my paintings,” Odita has said. Songs from Life was painted over the course of six weeks, with visitors able to see the site-specific work emerging across the walls and columns. Executed with flat acrylic latex paint, the floor-to-ceiling installation provides an immersive experience, with Odita describing its colors as expressions of freedom and change. Each painted section is anchored by a selection of songs that expand on the artist’s conception of MoMA’s lobby as a gathering space for people from different walks of life. “There’s a sort of energy that is communal because of the way music can affect the body,” Odita has said. “That’s how I want to make my paintings work, too.”"}
{"i":180,"title":"Taking Back Our Space: Photographic Perspectives","raw":"In 1972, the West German artist Marianne Wex began a visual survey of gendered body language. She picked up her camera and covertly photographed people in her hometown of Hamburg, observing how men and women were socialized to inhabit space differently. She also rephotographed pictures from advertisements, newspapers, magazines, film, television, and art catalogues, pasting the images onto boards organized into categories like “standing arms,” “sitting legs,” “lying down,” and “possessive holds.” For Wex, “these mostly unconscious actions” were “essential parts of our communication.” Presenting a robust selection, the exhibition also brings Wex’s watershed feminist project into dialogue with contemporary artists Nona Faustine, Martine Gutierrez, K8 Hardy, Yuki Kihara, Joiri Minaya, Paulina Olowska, and Wendy Red Star. These contemporary practitioners reappraise the relationship of bodies to public space from Black, queer, and 21st-century feminist perspectives. In this context, the notion of “taking back space” resonates as a reclamation of physical territory, historical narratives, and the ability to represent oneself."}
{"i":181,"title":"Nilima Sheikh: Fractured Skies","raw":"“The artist’s role is to bear witness—to both the past and the present,” says Nilima Sheikh. Over the course of her five-decade career, Sheikh has transformed narrative painting as a new way of engaging with history, highlighting lived experiences, illuminating regional stories, and foregrounding women’s voices. Her research-based art practice draws on a vast array of historical accounts, archival materials, and literary sources. Adapting the traditional scroll format and painting primarily in casein and gum temperas, Sheikh weaves together image, text, and stenciled patterning to create multilayered narratives that unfold as interconnected vignettes. Since the early 2000s, Sheikh has often turned her attention to the Kashmir Valley, the culturally rich and politically complex northernmost region of the Indian subcontinent. Nilima Sheikh: Fractured Skies brings together selections from her series Each Night Put Kashmir in Your Dreams (2003–14) and Home, Land (2023–25) alongside Shahid/Witness (2025–26), a new, site-responsive set of paintings commissioned by the Kiran Nadar Museum of Art, New Delhi. These three major bodies of work trace the depth of Sheikh’s engagement with the region over the past two decades and reflect the broader themes that inform her expansive practice: violence, displacement, loss, and the enduring power of human connection. Born in New Delhi, Sheikh was a member of the generation of artists working and studying in Baroda (now Vadodara) in the late 1960s, who helped shape contemporary art in post-Partition India. Through her visionary painting practice, Sheikh has established herself as one of the most consequential artists working in South Asia today."}
{"i":182,"title":"Full Disclosure: The Edge of Information Design","raw":"We swim in an ocean of data. Every click, weather pattern, border crossing, and blood test is tracked and fed into systems that increasingly inform our daily behaviors. Data, however, is not knowledge. Before it can be put to use, it must first be translated—through design. Full Disclosure explores how contemporary designers act as essential interpreters of this cultural revolution, transforming raw data into visual stories we can understand and use. While the practice of mapping information is as ancient as abstract thought—stretching back to cosmological charts and cave drawings—computer logic, algorithms, machine learning, and artificial intelligence have upended the field of data visualization. Today’s practitioners create dynamic networks and animated narratives, expanding far beyond traditional charts and graphs. At a time when public confidence in big data and institutions has frayed, data visualization deals in trust as much as in truth, rendering design choices and sources ever more vital. Full Disclosure showcases an array of projects, both digital and analog, that encourage close looking and critical examination. Visitors will discover how contemporary information designers distill data to give form to invisible systems, expose hidden structures of power, preserve histories, and capture the intimate nuances of human experience."}
{"i":183,"title":"It’s Alive! A Century of Animation from the Collection","raw":"Since the birth of motion pictures, animation has enchanted audiences. At MoMA, its creative evolution has been celebrated by more than a hundred programs and acquisitions from both independent filmmakers and major studios alike. Drawing from this history and spanning more than 100 years of expression and aesthetics, It’s Alive! shares the work of more than 35 artists and filmmakers who advanced the medium. The exhibition highlights its roots in New York and how the city remained a hub for innovative animation. Felix the Cat, Koko the Clown, Gertie the Dinosaur, and other enduring cartoon icons of the silent era (1890s–1920s) prove how significant character-based animation was to establishing the medium. The hand-drawn practices of their creators—including Otto Messmer, Dave Fleischer, and Winsor McCay—were fundamental to the characters’ appeal. Works from later decades by artists such as Isadore Sparber, Mary Beams, Kathy Rose, Tissa David, and David Ehrlich demonstrate that black-and-white line drawing remained a vital style through the predigital period. The addition of color in the 1930s, and the modernization of animation design led by John Hubley in the 1950s as a response to the classical style of Disney, influenced a number of independent artists in later decades. Jane Aaron, John Canemaker, Faith and Emily Hubley, George Griffin, Candy Kugel, Jeff Scher, and Michael Sporn all called New York home. Balancing projects for Public Television and MTV with personal filmmaking, these animators created bodies of work that became a force in pop culture and resonated worldwide. It’s Alive! is a testament to a rich period of the city’s movie-making history, and to the diversity and delights of animation."}
{"i":184,"title":"The Surrealist Book: Tomorrow Lives in Mirrors","raw":"A book bound with shards of shattered glass. A manifesto enshrined in polished metal. Love poems seamlessly merging with solarized photographs. For artists and writers of the Surrealist movement, the book was a perfect vehicle for subversive experimentation and the promotion of Surrealism’s revolutionary tenets. Working collaboratively to unlock the unconscious, they transformed the bound volume into a provocative new art form, an enchanted portal to the unexpected, the irrational, and the marvelous. The Surrealist Book features the work of Surrealism’s most fascinating figures, including André Breton, Claude Cahun, Salvador Dalí, Paul Éluard, Max Ernst, Toyen, and Unica Zürn. It traces the myriad roles of Surrealist books from their foundational impact in the 1920s, through their convention-defying influence in the 1930s and ’40s, to the persistent presence of a Surrealist sensibility in volumes produced well into the 1950s and ’60s. The exhibition showcases a transformative gift of rare artists’ books from the Helen and Sam Zell Collection, presented for the first time at MoMA. This trove of exquisite objects includes special editions printed on unusual papers or enhanced with supplementary materials, unique maquettes and singular sketchbooks filled with collages and fantastical drawings, sculptural bindings that turn books into hybrid, interactive artworks, and much more. Whether sparking disquiet or delight, books, the Surrealists insisted, “are doors.” Whoever “opens them is immediately thrown into a higher realm.”"}
{"i":185,"title":"Jakob Kudsk Steensen: Wetland","raw":"Have you ever wondered what once existed under the streets where we stand? Many modern cities were built on top of wetlands. If we look close enough, traces of those lost ecosystems remain. In Berl-Berl, Jakob Kudsk Steensen reimagines Berlin’s forgotten wetlands as a singing, digital swamp. Part of an ongoing body of work, the work takes its title from the Slavic word for “swamp,” the origin of Berlin’s name. It combines ecological research and local folklore and songs—once used as a way of mapping this terrain and documenting its stories—to bring forth a new kind of landscape. Berl-Berl emerged through collaborations with the Museum für Naturkunde Berlin and the musician Arca, rooted in months of fieldwork in Berlin’s remaining wetlands, archival research into Sorbian and Slavic mythology, and studying linguistic history. Steensen introduced a collection of specimens of local rocks, flora, and fauna into the work’s visual and acoustic worlds, while transforming field recordings of swamps into rhythm and song. Translating a living environment into the digital realm, Kudsk Steensen invites visitors to imagine new forms of encounter between human and more-than-human spheres. The work draws on memory, feeling, and imagination to reshape how we relate to the natural world. As the artist has said, “Technology for me, in the sense of being a medium, is a connector.” Built using macro photogrammetry, 3D scanning, and game engine technology, the work unfolds as an ever-changing landscape—an archive of a vanishing world and a speculation about the one still to come."}
{"i":186,"title":"Brancusi: The Artist and His Studio","raw":"“Why, it is my studio,” Constantin Brancusi exclaimed when he first glimpsed New York City’s skyline in 1926. “All these blocks, all these shapes to be shifted and juggled with, as the experiment grows and changes.” Brancusi’s actual studio, on impasse Ronsin in Paris, was where he lived, worked, entertained friends and clients, and displayed his sculptures. There, he created some of his most groundbreaking works, which blurred traditional boundaries between pedestal and object, movement and stillness, originality and variation. Among them was Bird in Space, notoriously declared by a US customs agent to be inadmissible as a work of art. Over four decades, Brancusi’s Paris studio evolved from an active space of experimentation to an all-encompassing environment—a work of art in itself. Wanting to preserve the unity of the studio, Brancusi bequeathed its entire contents to France in 1957, transforming a home, workshop, and exhibition site into an enduring monument. Known today as the Atelier Brancusi, it is a cherished part of Centre Pompidou’s collection in Paris—and, like that museum, it is currently closed for renovations. For the first time in decades, rarely lent sculptures will travel to New York, along with a rich selection of Brancusi’s photographs, films, hand-carved furniture and pedestals, tools, and archival materials. This large-scale exhibition brings these works into dialogue with MoMA’s celebrated Brancusi collection and several important local loans. Together, they shed new light on Brancusi’s sculptures while revealing his studio as a place of work, play, and invention, offering an intimate, complex portrait of an artist who redefined sculpture in the 20th century through the radical simplicity of his forms."}
{"i":187,"title":"Na Mira: NO SMOKING","raw":"Drawing on ritual practices of Korean shamanism and on media histories rooted in structural filmmaking, Na Mira explores language, memory, and image-making systems. Mira’s sculptural and site-responsive installations are made with radio frequencies, infrared heat, and holography, which ground the artist’s reflections on the borders of body and state. “I work with what is hard to see,” the artist has noted. “My research reckons with military landscapes, diasporic time and thresholds of consciousness. Operating through negation—not film, not video, not performance, not text—tuning into the materiality of the signal and the animism of transmission.” For Mira’s first solo museum exhibition in New York, the artist is developing a newly commissioned media installation. To produce this new work, Mira records footage at sites of personal and historical significance through a creative process that embraces chance and desire, resulting in phantasmagoric projections presented across the Kravis Studio. Mira’s approach aims to rupture the fidelity of the image on which soft power, propaganda, and other forms of statecraft often rely. NO SMOKING engages spaces at the edges of perception where optics shatter, multiply, and disappear in plain sight."}
{"i":188,"title":"Mondrian Boogie Woogie","raw":"On October 3, 1940, the Dutch artist Piet Mondrian sailed into New York Harbor aboard the RMS Samaria. It had been a harrowing passage across the Atlantic as the 66-year-old painter escaped the chaos of World War II. That same night, Mondrian’s friend, the artist Harry Holtzman, played him several boogie woogie records—a percussive strain of blues piano that had recently taken New York by storm. First played by Black musicians in the American South in the 1800s, boogie woogie traveled with the Great Migration as millions of African Americans fled racial violence for opportunities in the northern cities. Mondrian soon encountered this music performed live at Café Society, New York’s first integrated nightclub, where Albert Ammons, Meade “Lux” Lewis, and Pete Johnson—three of the genre’s leading pianists—were in residence. For Mondrian, the improvisational dynamism of this music unleashed a period of extraordinary exploration. It prompted him to revise works he had completed in Europe, to experiment with colored tape, and to liberate his compositions from the stability of the grid, giving them a new syncopated structure that made them, in the artist’s words, “more boogie woogie.” This body of work culminated in his final two paintings, which have become beloved icons: Broadway Boogie Woogie (1942–43) and Victory Boogie Woogie (1942–44), reunited for this exhibition after 30 years. Mondrian Boogie Woogie is the first major survey of the artist’s work from his final years in New York City (1940–44). It explores two intersecting stories: Mondrian’s journey to Manhattan as a European refugee and boogie woogie’s northward migration. Featuring 30 artworks, an array of archival materials, and immersive audio experiences in the galleries, the exhibition is accompanied by a program of live musical performances."}