=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":0,"title":"Aphrodite: The Making of a Goddess","raw":"Step into the world of Aphrodite, the Greek goddess of love, beauty, and desire – later worshipped by the Romans as Venus. Today she is thought of as a symbol of passion and beauty, but her story is far older and more complex. This major exhibition will explore Aphrodite’s beginnings on the island of Cyprus, where she was worshipped as an all-powerful goddess over 3,000 years ago, and will trace her journey through the Greek and into the Roman world, where she became Venus. The exhibition will reveal how, over the centuries, Aphrodite evolved into an iconic figure symbolising love and beauty as her myths and images flourished – inspiring art, literature, and imagination from the Renaissance to the present day."}
{"i":1,"title":"Renaissance Worlds: Art and the Senses","raw":"This major new exhibition explores how art and objects created between 1450 and 1650 delighted the senses and revealed an increasingly connected world. Featuring works by artists including Raphael, Uccello, Dürer, Sofonisba Anguissola, and Antonello da Messina, alongside sculpture, textiles, musical instruments, and exquisite objects from Europe and beyond, Renaissance Worlds reveals a period shaped by global exchanges and alive with colour, texture, music, food, and fragrance. Iridescent images fashioned from hummingbird feathers, the taste of chocolate, the sounds of Renaissance drums and lutes, the scent of incense and spices, and the textures of velvet and silk reveal how Renaissance beholders experienced a multi-sensory and globally-connected world. Ashmolean Members enjoy unlimited free access to all exhibitions, exclusive preview days and special events, our Members' Magazine sent twice a year, plus shop, café and restaurant discounts. Every Membership supports the Museum."}
{"i":2,"title":"Ashmolean Now: Soma Surovi Jannat","raw":"This is the fifth in the Ashmolean NOW exhibition series, where contemporary artists are invited to create new work inspired by the Ashmolean’s historical collections. This exhibition showcases the work of Bangladeshi artist Soma Surovi Jannat, who draws inspiration from the Sundarbans, the largest mangrove forest in the world, and the Ashmolean collections to address the climate crisis. Her art reflects on environmental issues and the interconnectedness of nature and humanity, especially in Bangladesh, where the Sundarbans, faces threats from climate change. In her paintings and drawings, capturing urgent global and environmental issues, Surovi critiques the link between natural disasters and social inequalities. As the first Bangladeshi artist-in-residence at the Ashmolean, this exhibition marks Surovi's debut solo show in the UK and also the first solo exhibition of a Bangladesh-based artist in a museum in the UK."}
{"i":3,"title":"Restoring Rome: Roman Oxfordshire Coins Display","raw":"Coinage remains one of the best represented and most recognisable elements of Roman material culture. This display will showcase a selection of Roman coins in the Ashmolean collection that were found in Oxfordshire and tell the story of the region from the Roman conquest in 43 CE to the end of Roman Britain, around 410 CE. Some of the coins reflect everyday life through trade, soldiers’ pay, or the collection of taxes. Others tell us about Britain’s position in the empire or served as offerings people made to the gods. Discover a group of Iron Age gold staters buried in a flint nodule around the time of the Roman invasion, known as the Henley Hoard, and various Roman coins from Claudius I to the end of Roman Britain. These historic finds were discovered in local towns and villages, such as Cowley, Dorchester, Asthall, Horton, Shiplake and Childrey, and add to the evidence for coin use and circulation in Roman Oxfordshire."}
{"i":4,"title":"Colonial Views of India: Photographs by Eugene Clutterbuck Impey","raw":"This is the first exhibition to focus on photographs and negatives in the Ashmolean, and as such features previously unseen photographs of India by Colonel Eugene Clutterbuck Impey (1830–1904). A member of the East India Company, Impey arrived in India in 1851 and took part in military actions during the Indian Uprising of 1857. After the British Crown took control in 1858 following the Uprising, he worked as a political agent until returning to Britain in 1878. Impey’s photographs reflect British imperial interests, showcasing portraits of colonial officers and Indians, as well as staged scenes of daily life, clothing, religious sites, animals, and landscapes. These images often reinforced stereotypes with the aim to justify colonial efforts. Photography, which gained popularity after its debut in 1839, was used to highlight cultural differences. From the mid-1800s British officials documented various social groups in India, often categorising people by ethnicity."}
{"i":5,"title":"Sisters, Brothers, Others: Nationality and 20th-Century Chinese Art","raw":"Most citizens of the People’s Republic of China are Han, an ethnicity often translated as ‘Chinese.’ Officially, however, 56 different ‘brother and sister nationalities’ make up the country. The Sisters, Brothers, Others exhibition showcases how both Han and non-Han artists in the People's Republic of China have approached notions of 'self' and 'other' in their depictions of nationality and ethnicity. Through artworks and objects ranging from political propaganda posters to intimate self-portraits, the show explores questions of identity and the relationship between artistic and political representation. After the Manchu Qing dynasty fell in 1912, China transformed from an empire representing the power of an emperor into a state representing a nation. How could the diverse population of the former empire be united into a single national identity?"}
{"i":6,"title":"Ashmolean Now: Garry Fabian Miller","raw":"This is the sixth in the Ashmolean NOW exhibition series, where contemporary artists are invited to create new work inspired by the Ashmolean’s historical collections. This exhibition brings together two British artists separated by nearly two centuries, but united by a shared commitment to landscape, light, and the transformative power of place: Garry Fabian Miller and the 19th-century Romantic painter Samuel Palmer. Garry Fabian Miller is one of the most progressive figures in contemporary photography. He has worked without a camera since the 1980s, to explore the possibilities of light as both medium and subject. Living on Dartmoor, his work has evolved out of daily walks in nature. Mainly working with Cibachrome paper and traditional darkroom chemistry throughout his career, Fabian Miller has experimented with extremely long exposure times that can last for many hours, with time itself becoming a key artistic focus."}
{"i":7,"title":"In Bloom: How Plants Changed Our World","raw":"What do we really know about the plants and flowers in our gardens and window boxes? Beyond their beauty, many have hidden histories – tales of exploration, obsession, and knowledge. This major new exhibition took visitors on a journey from Oxford to the farthest corners of the world and back, uncovering the global stories behind some of Britain’s most beloved blooms – from roses and tulips to camellias and peonies. Featuring over 100 artworks and objects, including drawings, paintings, rare prints, and ceramics, In Bloom explored our changing relationship with the natural world."}
{"i":8,"title":"This Is What You Get: Stanley Donwood | Radiohead | Thom Yorke","raw":"This major exhibition explored the visual art of Stanley Donwood and Thom Yorke and the iconic images of Radiohead. More than 180 objects were on display from the artists’ 30-year collaboration, including original paintings for album covers, digital compositions, etchings, unpublished drawings, and lyrics in their sketchbooks. This Is What You Get revealed how the artists experimented with early technology, and explores the evolution of the images for Radiohead’s legendary albums and Yorke’s later projects. To date the band, which was formed in Oxfordshire in the mid-1980s, has sold 30 million records worldwide. Developed and curated with Stanley Donwood and Thom Yorke, the show offered a unique opportunity to look at the creative forces behind some of the most important and influential music of the past few decades."}
{"i":9,"title":"Anselm Kiefer: Early Works","raw":"Anselm Kiefer: Early Works was a landmark exhibition of one of the world's most important living artists, organised in collaboration with the Hall Art Foundation and drawn from the Hall Collection. Featuring paintings, watercolours, artist books, photos and woodcuts, all rarely displayed in the UK, this major exhibition took us back to the origins of Anselm Kiefer. With 45 works made during the period 1969–82, the show explored the artist’s roots, covering an array of cultural, literary and philosophical subjects including recent German history. Best known for his monumental paintings and installations, Anselm Kiefer has become a towering figure of post-war art, and this exhibition was a unique chance for you to see his multi-layered and poignant early works. The exhibition also featured three new paintings chosen by Kiefer from his own collection."}
{"i":10,"title":"Money Talks: Art, Society & Power","raw":"Exploring the place of money in our world through different artistic lenses. Money Talks featured more than 100 objects from across the globe, including artworks by Rembrandt, Andy Warhol, Guerrilla Girls, Grayson Perry and Bansky, and the new phenomenon of cryptocurrency and NFTs. https://www.youtube.com/embed/-TBggQswqJQ?si=K_12bgOydRSkkkY7 Mr Barrie and Mrs Deedee Wigmore The Patrons of the Ashmolean Museum"}
{"i":11,"title":"Pat Suet-Bik Hui & the Three Perfections: Poetry, Calligraphy, Painting","raw":"Pat Suet-Bik Hui 許雪碧 (b. 1943) is a US-based Hong Kong artist. This exhibition showcases her work alongside others who engage with the tradition of the 'three perfections' 三絕, which brings together the three art forms of poetry, calligraphy, and painting. The exhibition included works by Hui, her contemporaries, her teacher Lui Shou-Kwan and others of his generation, as well as earlier examples from the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. Seeing Hui alongside these other artists gave the context to understand her as both innovator and standard-bearer of tradition. In this tradition, calligraphic brushstrokes are as integral to compositional balance as those used in painting. Likewise, images conjured by a poem and those rendered in a painting combine to create effects neither can achieve alone. Hui’s modern interpretation fuses abstract and semi-abstract washes of colour and ink with simple, restrained calligraphy inscribing poems reflecting on a variety of themes, from love, to loss, to the pleasures of drinking."}
{"i":12,"title":"Ashmolean Now: Daphne Wright – Deep-Rooted Things","raw":"This was the fourth in the Ashmolean NOW exhibition series, where contemporary artists are invited to create new work inspired by the Ashmolean’s historical collections. This exhibition focused on sculptures by Irish artist Daphne Wright and has been curated by Ashmolean director, Xa Sturgis. Conceived in partnership with the Hugh Lane Gallery in Dublin, the exhibition featured several new works which consider the tradition of still lifes and respond to the sculptures in our Cast Gallery. Daphne Wright works in unfired clay and jesmonite and has long experimented with casting."}
{"i":13,"title":"Images of Authority: Portraits Between Iran and Europe","raw":"As we grapple with the possibilities and excesses of our image-obsessed culture, this free exhibition looked back at the way in which a specific kind of image – portraits – dominated the lives of three contemporaneous rulers: Fath Ali Shah Qajar (1797–1834), King George III (1760–1820), and Napoleon Bonaparte (1799–1814). Juxtaposing portraits on different media from across Iran, Britain and France, the display explored similar and unique strategies developed to convey the personal and political aspirations of these ambitious leaders and astute image-makers. Exhibited for the first time in over a century, are also two recently restored Qajar paintings and some of the discoveries made during their conservation treatment. The Ashmolean Museum gratefully acknowledged the British Institute of Persian Studies, the Flora Foundation, the Pilgrim Trust, the Persian Heritage Foundation, the Yadiran Foundation and additional anonymous donors for supporting the study and restoration of the Qajar paintings."}
{"i":14,"title":"Kabuki Kimono: Costumes of Bandō Tamasaburō V","raw":"This set of striking kabuki costumes belonging to the kabuki actor Bandō Tamasaburō V was on display in the Ashmolean's Textile Gallery. Tamasaburō is the most popular and celebrated onnagata (male actor who performs female roles) currently on the kabuki stage. The costumes selected reflect the wide variety of roles in this actor's long and celebrated theatre career, from court ladies and courtesans to fairy princesses. These intricately crafted kimonos showcased a range of elaborate textile techniques, including weaving, dyeing, embroidery and hand-painting. The beautiful costumes are adorned with cascading wisteria and cherry blossoms by torchlight, golden peacock feathers and swirling dragons. Two of the most spectacular costumes in the new rotation (above and below) were worn by Tamasaburō in the role of high-ranking courtesan Yūgiri in the hugely popular kabuki play 'Love letters from the Pleasure Quarters' (Kuruwa Bunshō). Set in Osaka, it tells the story of a lover’s tiff between merchant’s son Izaemon and the glamorous Yūgiri."}
{"i":15,"title":"Cheung Yee and His 1960s Hong Kong Contemporaries","raw":"This exhibition showcases newly-acquired works for the Ashmolean by the Hong Kong artist Cheung Yee (1936–2019). It will be the first substantial display of his work outside Hong Kong, including sculpture and works on paper. Cheung Yee was a leading figure of innovation in the Hong Kong art scene, especially during the 1960s, when the city established its own identity as an artistic centre. His work will be shown alongside those by Lui Shou-Kwan (1919–75), Wucius Wong (b.1936), Liu Kuo-sung (b.1932) and others from the avant-garde Circle Art Group. Displayed with his peers, the works highlight Cheung Yee’s connection with a generation of modern art pioneers from Hong Kong and Taiwan in the latter 20th century. Although Cheung Yee is mainly known as a sculptor, the Ashmolean exhibition will include some outstanding examples of his experiments with works on paper."}
{"i":16,"title":"Sir Winston Churchill at 150 Money Gallery Display","raw":"To coincide with the 150th anniversary of the birth of Sir Winston Churchill last autumn (Nov 2024), we have been showcasing a selection of coins and medals from our collection in the Money Gallery. These include a rare proof of a commemorative £2 coin by the Royal Mint, specially produced for the anniversary. The Heberden Coin Room at the Ashmolean has a world-class collection of medals relating to Churchill, mostly thanks to a gift from J. Eric Engstrom of his Churchill Medal Collection in 2020. The display reveals how Churchill has become a key figure in the medallic art of the 20th century. The display explores the range of media in which Churchill finds himself remembered. Alongside the coins and medals are several other objects, including a pamphlet of John Maynard Keynes – on show for the first time – and a striking commemorative mug. This display was supported by a gift given in loving memory of Harry Clay Blaney III"}
{"i":17,"title":"Ashmolean Now: Bettina von Zwehl – The Flood","raw":"The third in the Ashmolean NOW exhibition series, where contemporary artists are invited to create new work inspired by the Ashmolean’s historical collections. This exhibition featured photographs by London-based artist, Bettina von Zwehl (b. 1971). Von Zwehl's aim is to rekindle wonder and curiosity as critical tools for exploring new ideas and practices. During a residency in Oxford from 2022–23, von Zwehl spent time researching the Ashmolean’s founding collections – the wonderfully diverse objects and works of art which were displayed when the Museum first opened in the 17th century. The artist's time at the Ashmolean served as inspiration for a unique photographic 'Wunderkammer' installation that moves between portraiture, silhouetted fragments, still-life, monumental and miniature elements, as well as non-art objects and specimens from natural history collections."}
{"i":18,"title":"Demon, Mother, Maker of Kings","raw":"In ancient and medieval societies, gods and goddesses were central to how people saw the world. In this display you will discover a group of female divinities of the ancient world offering a glimpse into the many surprising forms of their power, from motherhood, love and fertility, to being fiercely violent and asserting political authority. Each has many different roles and functions in war, battle and death, politics, intelligence, and even navigation. Many scholars in the late Victorian period saw these goddesses as evidence of an ancient ‘Great Goddess’ cult, which they mistakenly interpreted as evidence of matriarchy – a society led by women. These ideas, though useful to feminists, were used by their critics to argue that female power was ‘primitive’ and ‘uncivilised’. Header image: Durga slays the buffalo demon Mahishasuramardini, illustration (detail), 17th century, gouache on paper"}
{"i":19,"title":"National Treasures: The Wilton Diptych in Oxford","raw":"The Ashmolean is proud to have been a partner venue for the National Treasures displays in 2024. As part of its 200th birthday celebrations, the National Gallery loaned 12 paintings to venues around the UK, with the displays all opening on 10 May 2024. The Ashmolean displayed the Wilton Diptych, painted about 1395-9 and made for Richard II, King of England from 1377 to 1399. The small, portable altarpiece is one of a handful of English panel paintings to have survived from the Middle Ages. The Wilton Diptych English or French, painted about 1395-9. Egg on oak."}
{"i":20,"title":"Simple Pleasures: Li Jin with Roger Law","raw":"'We are good friends and share the same path in art' – Letter from Li Jin to Roger Law, 2003 This exhibition showcased work by the contemporary Chinese ink master Li Jin – his first solo show in the UK – alongside a selection of drawings and ceramic work by the British caricaturist Roger Law and some of their correspondence. The two artists have been friends for many years. Both share a sense of humour and sharp observation in their artistic endeavours and appreciation of each other's art. Active since the 1980s, Li Jin is best known for his playful and witty depictions of the sensory pleasure of the ordinaries, which subvert the classical themes of an ideal, elegant, and serene life in Chinese literati painting. Li Jin often accompanies his artworks with calligraphy of Buddhist texts."}
{"i":21,"title":"Kabuki Legends: Part Two – Stencil Prints by Takahashi Hiromitsu","raw":"Japanese artist Takahashi Hiromitsu creates dynamic, colourful prints showing exciting moments in kabuki, a traditional form of dance-drama. This was the second show in a two-part exhibition of his works in Gallery 29. Hiromitsu’s striking designs are not portraits of actual actors, but visualisations of famous kabuki roles. In kabuki, performers wearing elaborate costumes and make-up use stylised movement and song to enact melodramatic stories about love, loyalty and the clash between duty and emotion. The works recall Japan’s traditional ukiyo-e woodblock actor prints, but are made using a different technique – kappazuri, or stencil printing, originally used for dyeing kimono. This process is complex and labour-intensive and Hiromitsu is one of very few artists working in this way today."}
{"i":22,"title":"Ashmolean Now: Pio Abad","raw":"Our Pio Abad exhibition, which closed at the Ashmolean in Sep 2024, was one of four nominated for the Turner Prize 2024. Congratulations to the winner Jasleen Kaur for her exhibition Alter Altar, at Tramway in Glasgow. The second in the Ashmolean NOW exhibition series, where contemporary artists are invited to create new work inspired by the Ashmolean’s historical collections. This exhibition, entitled To Those Sitting in Darkness, featured new drawings and objects by London-based artist Pio Abad (b.1983)."}
{"i":23,"title":"Money in Renaissance Germany","raw":"This display in the Money Gallery explores the creation of a common currency across the Holy Roman Empire in 1559. It was the first European currency whose units were clearly and consistently marked with their face values in Arab numerals. While the fronts of the coins were harmonised, the backs retained some forms of local reference, which was in some cases quite playfully medieval. Before the adoption of a common silver currency in 1559, parts of the empire faced well-known monetary pressures. In the absence of central control and consensus, different issuing authorities of a similar geographical area minted coins which were superficially the same, but in fact tended to become baser or lighter. This made the currency steadily worse. Images above: Front and back: Silver coin (Leicesterrijksdaalder) of Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester, Lord of Denbigh, Governor-General of the United Provinces of the Netherlands, 1564-1588 from Harderwijk (Modern), 1587. HCR45928"}
{"i":24,"title":"La Mode en Majesté. Royal Thai Dress from Tradition to Modernity","raw":"The Musée des Arts Décoratifs presents a unique exhibition on the clothing evolution at the Thai court, featuring pieces from the royal collection. Gathering more than a hundred exceptional garments and accessories, the exhibition showcases the royal wardrobes, highlighting the eight traditional Thai costume formats designed by Her Majesty Queen Sirikit in collaboration with a team of historians and local Thai designers. The exhibition also emphasizes the unique history of cultural and artistic dialogue, marked by over thirty years of collaboration between Queen Sirikit and fashion designer Pierre Balmain, later continued with the Balmain and Lesage houses. Organized in collaboration with the Queen Sirikit Museum of Textiles in Thailand and The Sustainable Arts and Crafts Institute of Thailand (SACIT), the exhibition coincides with the celebrations of the 170th and 340th anniversaries of diplomatic relations between France and Thailand (formerly the Kingdom of Siam)."}
{"i":25,"title":"A Day in the Eighteenth Century: Chronicle of a Parisian Townhouse","raw":"The Musée des Arts Décoratifs invites visitors to step inside the intimate world of an eighteenth-century aristocratic residence and its inhabitants – masters, servants, and household animals. Featuring more than 550 original objects, drawn from the museum’s collections and for most of them, rarely exhibited, ’A Day in the Eighteenth Century: Chronicle of a Parisian Townhouse’ gather all fields of expression of the decorative arts – wood panelling and wallpapers, furniture, ceramics, silverware, clothing and fashion accessories, toys, and jewellery – to recreate the life of a Parisian hôtel particulier in the 1780s. In a cinematic, sound-filled and scented atmosphere, the visitors wander from room to room as if they were close acquaintances, friends, or privileged guests of the family. The exhibition is curated by Ariane James-Sarazin, Chief Heritage Curator responsible for the seventeenth- and eighteenth-century collections and the Nissim de Camondo collection, together with Sophie Motsch, Assistant Curator. The exhibition is designed by FREAKS Architecture."}
{"i":26,"title":"Look: 40 Years of Fashion at the Museum","raw":"To celebrate the 40th anniversary of the founding of the Musée des Arts de la Mode within its walls, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs is presenting an exhibition featuring 40 iconic outfits. The major exhibition, “Look: 40 Years of Fashion at the Museum” reveals the craftsmanship and techniques of the fashion world. From sewing workshops to behind-the-scenes at the museum, these techniques transform garments into works of art. The exhibition invites visitors to follow the dual life of a garment, from before to after it enters the collections. It unveils the stages of creation, conservation, and restoration that bring this exceptional heritage to life, from the initial sketch to the runway show, via fashion photography, and from the museum’s storage to the exhibition. Visitors can discover the beauty of the works and objects that contribute to creating a fashion piece, such as drawings, embroidery samples, patterns, and model archives. Enhanced by photography and worn by increasingly famous models, garments become the stars of fashion shows, which are now conceived as true artistic performances."}
{"i":27,"title":"Rafael Pavarotti. Photographer","raw":"For the first time in France, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs presents the work of Brazilian photographer Rafael Pavarotti from October 2, 2026, to May 2, 2027. The exhibition showcases over 200 prints, juxtaposed with photographs from the museum’s collection, from the iconic fashion magazine covers to portraits of international pop culture stars such as Rihanna, Harry Styles, and Beyoncé, as well as campaigns he has created for major fashion houses. His work is characterized by a vibrant, powerful style, producing striking and unique images. Born in 1993 in Pará, within the Amazon rainforest, Pavarotti’s personal history resonates throughout his photographic approach. Strong women in his family, the bright, colorful dishware of his grandmother, and the natural environment of his childhood are central sources of inspiration."}
{"i":28,"title":"The language of Walls: Rubbings from China to Notre-Dame","raw":"From March 18 to June 28, 2026, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs presents Le langage des murs. Estampages de la Chine à Notre-Dame, the fourth focus exhibition in the Drawing, Wallpaper and Photography Department, coinciding with the Salon du Dessin and Printemps Asiatique. Featuring around one hundred works—including ancient and contemporary rubbings, drawings, and technical tools—the exhibition showcases the art of stone rubbing through a unique selection of the museum’s Chinese and French collections. On that occasion, the museum invites Santiago Hardy, a steepljack, and Delphine Syvilay, then research engineer at the Laboratory for Research on Historic Monuments (LRMH), to present for the first time the marks of the stonemasons and the stamped graffiti uncovered during the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris."}
{"i":29,"title":"1925-2025. One Hundred Years of Art Deco","raw":"The Musée des Arts Décoratifs celebrates the centenary of Art Deco with an exhibition of contemporary scenography. In 1925, the International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts in Paris marked the peak of Art Deco. Decorators, manufacturers, magazines, department stores, artists, and even foreign nations competed fiercely to occupy Parisian buildings or erect temporary structures to display their latest creations. From October 22, 2025, to April 26, 2026, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs will celebrate the centenary of this great style and its success with an exhibition of contemporary scenography."}
{"i":30,"title":"Guénaëlle de Carbonnières. In the hollow of images","raw":"From October 29, 2025, to February 1, 2026, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs presents the photographic work of the artist Guénaëlle de Carbonnières in the “Cabinet des Dessins, Papiers peints et Photographies”. Her work revolves around collective memory, particularly using archaeological and architectural images. For the first time, she immersed herself in the photographic collections of the Musée des Arts Décoratifs to collect and reveal their secrets, like an archaeological dig."}
{"i":31,"title":"Paul Poiret: Fashion is a Feast","raw":"The Musée des Arts Décoratifs presents its first major monograph dedicated to Paul Poiret (1879-1944), a key figure in Parisian haute couture at the beginning of the 20th century. Paul Poiret, regarded as the liberator of the female body for removing the corset, revolutionized fashion. The exhibition Paul Poiret. Fashion is a Feast is an immersive journey into the creator’s rich universe, from the Belle Époque to the Roaring Twenties. It explores his creations in the fields of fashion, decorative arts, perfume, celebration, and gastronomy. Through 550 works (clothing, accessories, fine and decorative arts), the exhibition highlights his lasting influence and reveals the extent of his creative genius. It is a fascinating journey into the world of a man whose legacy continues to inspire contemporary fashion designers, from Christian Dior in 1948 to Alphonse Maitrepierre in 2024."}
{"i":32,"title":"Bamboo, From Pattern to Work","raw":"In the intimate “Cabinet des Dessins, Papiers Peints et Photography” on the museum’s 5th floor, explore one of the recurring motifs in Asian art: bamboo. Dive into the Japanese and Chinese collections of the Musée des Arts Décoratifs for the 8th edition of Printemps Asiatique! Explore one of the recurring motifs in Asian art, bamboo."}
{"i":33,"title":"My Teddy Bear","raw":"The undisputed king of toys, the teddy bear descends on the Musée des Arts décoratifs to tell his incredible story. Born at the very beginning of the 20th century, he quickly earned a place for himself in the hearts of children, dethroning toys whose existence dated back to Antiquity, like dolls or animals on wheels. Since then, the teddy bear has become the quasi-universal symbol of childhood, and synonymous with tenderness and gentleness. But how has the former king of animals, revered for his strength and feared for his ferocity, transformed into the most popular of toys?"}
{"i":34,"title":"Ruhlmann decorator","raw":"History has established Jacques-Émile Ruhlmann as the true champion of the 1925 exhibition. From March 12 to June 1, 2025, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs will open the centennial celebration of the 1925 event with a tribute to this exceptional decorator, through drawings, wallpapers and photographs from its collections. While he occasionally participated in the decoration through his furnishings of the Pavilion of the Society of Decorative Artists – a project of the French Embassy – it was in the Collector’s Pavilion that he created an original work. In a building commissioned by his friend the architect Pierre Patout, and soon to be known as the Ruhlmann Pavilion, he designed an ideal home, which he completed, in coordination with with nearly fifty artists."}
{"i":35,"title":"Rococo & co: From Nicolas Pineau to Cindy Sherman","raw":"On the occasion of the Dessin 2025 fair, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs is paying tribute to Nicolas Pineau, an ornamental sculptor and architect, one of the major figures of the artistic renewal at the beginning of the 18th century. From its origins at the beginning of the 18th century, the exhibition explores the evolution of the Rococo style and its reappearance in contemporary design and fashion, including Art Nouveau and psychedelic art. Nearly 200 drawings, pieces of furniture, woodwork, objets d’art, lighting, ceramics and fashion items engage in a playful dialogue of curves and counter-curves. Nicolas Pineau and Juste Aurèle Meissonnier are joined by Louis Majorelle, Jean Royère, Alessandro Mendini, Mathieu Lehanneur, the fashion designers Tan Giudicelli and Vivienne Westwood, and the artist Cindy Sherman."}
{"i":36,"title":"Christofle, a brilliant story","raw":"The Musée des Arts décoratifs presents a major exhibition on the Maison Christofle, showing how, from its foundation in the 1830s to the present day, this line of talented goldsmiths, begun by Charles Christofle (1805-1863) and Henri Bouilhet (1830-1910), transformed the lines and decorations of silverware, allowing it to become a feature of daily life. Through an immersive and magical exhibition, this large retrospective features a selection of over six hundred pieces of gold and silverwork, paintings, drawings, and posters, from the Bouilhet-Christofle Collection and other major national collections. The first exhibition of this scale, it has been organized by the Musée des Arts décoratifs, which has always maintained close links with the Maison Christofle, recognized as part of France’s tangible heritage since the second half of the 19th century."}
{"i":37,"title":"Private Lives: from the Bedroom to Social Media","raw":"The Musée des Arts Décoratifs takes you on a fascinating journey into the heart of our inner sanctum through a history of privacy, from the 18th century to the present day. 470 works, including paintings and photographs, as well as decorative art objects, reveal how the private sphere has evolved. From the bedroom as seen by Henri Cartier-Bresson or Nan Goldin and 19th-century wrought-iron beds to the “lit-clos” of the Bouroullec brothers’, from the commode chair to the urinal for women, from waterless hygiene products to the bathroom, from aristocratic beauty to mass consumption, from licentious books to sex toys, from the Walkman to social networks and influence, through the tools of surveillance and protection, the exhibition shows how privacy came to be, and the profound changes it has undergone since then. The increasingly blurred and porous boundaries between private and public have sparked much debates."}
{"i":38,"title":"Fashion. Next Gen. ANDAM’s 35th Anniversary","raw":"From October 1, 2024, to March 30, 2025, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs celebrates the 35th anniversary of the ANDAM (National Association for the Development of Fashion Arts) through a selection of 17 fashion silhouettes, showcasing its visionary perspective on young creation. The Musée des Arts Décoratifs is home to the national collection of fashion and textiles, which is among the world’s most substantial, spanning from the 18th century to the present. Since 1989, ANDAM has annually awarded emerging designers from the French and international scenes, providing them with the means, through its competition and comprehensive support program, to establish themselves sustainably in the fashion landscape. The collaboration between the Musée des Arts Décoratifs and ANDAM aims to highlight these new fashion players. Winners are invited to offer emblematic pieces from their award-winning collections each year, enriching the museum’s archives of contemporary fashion. Through themes such as the art of tailoring, body deformation, or transparency, the silhouettes and accessories of the 2023 and 2024 winners converse with those of their predecessors from the Museum’s collections. This presentation highlights ANDAM’s openness to the diversity of fashion, which is characterized by aesthetic proposals, technical research and craftsmanship, and the expression of each creator’s personal universe. Featured fashion designers: Martin Margiela, Olivier Guillemin, Gareth Pugh, Udo Edling, Jeremy Scott, Vicente Rey, Koché, Vincent Rubin, Marine Serre, Stéphanie D’Heygère, Ludovic de Saint-Sernin, Ester Manas, Louis-Gabriel Nouchi, Duran Lantink, Ruslan Baginskiy, 31 Février, Glenn Martens for Y/Project, Arthur Avellano, Charlotte Chesnais, Mariot Chanet, three 2024 Fashion winners, one 2024 Accessory winner."}
{"i":39,"title":"Fashion in the making. Photographs of 1920s and 1930s designs","raw":"The exhibition “La mode en modèles” on view from November 6, 2024 to February 26, 2025, presents a selection from the museum’s collection of photographic deposits of fashion models. More than one hundred photographs, drawings, films, and haute couture dresses provide an overview of Parisian fashion creation during the Roaring Twenties, from 1917 to 1939. These often overlooked images, crucial to the legal protection of fashion houses, offer a detailed look at the work of major couturiers, from the Callot sisters to Jeanne Paquin, from Jeanne Lanvin to Elsa Schiaparelli, including Madeleine Vionnet and Jean Patou. They allow us to trace the evolution of fashion innovation and aesthetics during this iconic period."}
{"i":40,"title":"Luxury in China. Asia Week Paris 2024","raw":"On the occasion of the 60th anniversary of cultural relations between China and France and the 7th edition of Asia Week, the Musée des Arts Décoratifsis presenting a new presentation of an important ensemble of Chinese works in its permanent exhibition. This new presentation highlights the exceptional nature of certain materials and numerous Chinese crafting techniques used since antiquity to create luxury objects. These techniques allowed the sublimation of materials such as jade and other hard stones, porcelain, cloisonné or painted enamel, bronze, lacquered wood, feathers, and glass. All the works presented have been selected from the national collections of the Musée des Arts Décoratifs. They illustrate the production of the Yuan (1279-1368), Ming (1368-1644) and Qing (1644-1912) dynasties from the 13th century to the end of the 19th century. This presentation also tells the story of the museum’s collection and the sources of inspiration that these objects have been for artists, designers, and manufacturers for more than 150 years, from the Chinoiserie period of the 18th century to the second half of the 19th century and the Art Nouveau period. The tour begins in the Jewelry Gallery and continues through the permanent galleries, from the medieval halls to the contemporary rooms."}
{"i":41,"title":"Fashion, Design, Jewellery Exhibit","raw":"In April 2024, the Musée des Arts décoratifs will open a new exhibit in the rooms housing the permanent collection devoted to contemporary design, from levels 5 to 9 of the Pavillon de Marsan. For the first time, this presentation will include a selection of fashion and jewellery creations: some thirty couture or ready-to-wear pieces and approximately fifty accessories and jewellery creations that resonate with the museum’s design masterpieces from the 20th century to the present day. In this context, with recent additions to the rooms hosting the Lalanne bequest and the new acquisitions of the Design Circle, the chosen fashion and jewellery works will sublimate the design and artisanal creations already on display, whether in terms of similarities in form or design, or chronologically. This presentation pays a special tribute to the couturiers and creators who have recently contributed to the enrichment of the museum’s collections by means of generous donations. Discover the creations of Balmain, Andrea Crews, Comme des Garçons, Schiaparelli, Issey Miyake, Xuly Bët, Fred Sathal, Elizabeth de Senneville, Valentino, Paco Rabanne, Christian Dior, Hermès, Lanvin, Louis Vuitton, Van Cleef and Arpels, Line Vautrin, Gilles Jonemann, Helmut Lang, Christian Astuguevieille, and many others."}
{"i":42,"title":"Off-site - The Adorned Body : French Fashion and Jewellery 1770–1910","raw":"Presented at The Hong Kong Palace Museum in partnership with the Musée des Arts Décoratifs, the exhibition “The Adorned Body: French Fashion and Jewellery 1770–1910” showcases nearly 400 stunning pieces of French costumes, jewellery, and fashion accessories from the collection of the Musée des Arts Décoratifs highlighting the fascinating stories about the evolution of fashion and jewellery in France and the interplay of cultures that shaped French fashion."}
{"i":43,"title":"The Birth of Department Stores. Fashion, design, toys, advertising. 1852-1925.","raw":"From 10 April to 13 October 2024, the Musée des Arts Décoratifs is devoting an exhibition to the birth of department stores, which in the mid-nineteenth century became the new temples of modernity and consumerism. Au Bon Marché, Les Grands Magasins du Louvre, Le Printemps, La Samaritaine, and Les Galeries Lafayette reveal their multiple facets through the prisms of history, politics, and society, from the Second Empire up until their consecration during the International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts of 1925."}
{"i":44,"title":"John Constable: views of nature","raw":"Marking the 250th anniversary of Constable's birth in 1776, this display celebrates the painter's lifelong engagement with the landscapes of rural England. A precise observer, John Constable (1776–1837) spent much of his time sketching, drawing and painting outdoors. His most important subjects were the fields and waterways of his native East Anglia and, later in life, the cloudscapes over Hampstead Heath. Constable's sensitivity towards atmospheric effects and nature's poetic potential reshaped the British landscape tradition, making him one of England's most acclaimed painters. Then as now, his art speaks powerfully to the beauty, transience and fragility of the natural world. In 1888, a donation by the artist's daughter Isabel Constable greatly enhanced the British Museum collection. Primarily drawn from this donation, the selection presented here provides a broad overview of Constable's graphic work during his late career, in the 1820s and '30s. It includes highly finished drawings, preparatory studies for celebrated oil compositions, as well as fleetingly sketched impressions of clouds and rainbows. They show an artist drawn to the daily rhythms of rural life as much as to historical subjects such as the ruins of Cowdray House or Stonehenge. Ten plates from English Landscape – an ambitious series of mezzotint prints created with David Lucas (1802–81) – reveal Constable's late-in-life contemplation of his legacy as a landscape painter."}
{"i":45,"title":"Declaring independence: USA 250","raw":"250 years ago, on 4 July 1776, the Thirteen British Colonies in North America adopted the Declaration of Independence, breaking away from the British Crown and founding the United States of America. Introduced through the story of the Washington Peace Medal, the display highlights material traditions of allegiance and treaty-making that shaped this pivotal moment in history. Made in Boston in 1777, the medal was presented by the Revolutionaries to members of the Wabanaki Confederacy as part of a treaty of friendship and alliance against the British. Soon after, British forces confiscated the medal under threat of military force and presented it to King George III as a war trophy. Passing through the hands of all three groups, the medal reveals the competing diplomatic and political interests at the heart of the conflict. Indigenous Peoples played a vital role throughout the War of Independence, forming alliances with both sides while navigating the human consequences of shifting political powers. Through treaties, diplomatic gifts and acts of resistance, the exhibition uncovers the global and deeply interconnected histories behind the founding of the United States. This powerful display features a rare handwritten manuscript copy of the Declaration of Independence arriving halfway through the run and ceremonial gifts exchanged between Indigenous Nations, the British and the Revolutionaries. A wampum belt and pipe tomahawk show how objects were used to negotiate diplomacy, loyalty, and land rights."}
{"i":46,"title":"The Bayeux Tapestry","raw":"For the first time since it was made nearly 1,000 years ago, the Bayeux Tapestry has returned to England. Following a historic agreement with France, the 70-metre-long tapestry, depicting events leading up to the Battle of Hastings and the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, is being loaned to the British Museum from September 2026 to July 2027. This monumental embroidery tells the dramatic story of a moment that changed England forever. No year in the country's history is more famous than 1066. It was the last time England was successfully invaded, and it is the year from which the modern monarchy dates itself. And there is no other object that is as instantly recognisable, as studied in schools and as copied by artists as the Bayeux Tapestry. One of the wonders of the medieval world, the Tapestry offers a vision of life in 11th-century England both before and after the Conquest, from castles, warfare and ships to clothing, food and furniture. Likely commissioned by a Norman patron and made by English embroiderers, using manuscript drawings from Canterbury, the Tapestry is both a precious historical record and a remarkable work of art."}
{"i":47,"title":"Korea","raw":"Discover 2,000 years of Korean creativity – through works spanning from around 300 BC to the present day. Featuring outstanding examples of sculpture, painting and decorative arts over two millennia – up to the present day – the exhibition presents the most comprehensive chronological survey of Korean visual and material culture seen in Europe for over 40 years. This major exhibition draws almost exclusively from the 23,000 works bequeathed in 2021 by the late Samsung Chairman Lee Kun-Hee to the National Museum of Korea (NMK) and the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art, Korea (MMCA). It offers a dynamic journey through the art and material culture of the last 2,000 years. It also includes many National Treasures or Treasures, objects so designated for their exceptionally high quality and historical significance. From ancient gold body ornaments and Buddhist icons to 12th- and 13th-century celadon-glazed stoneware, evocative ink landscapes and contemporary works responding to the turbulence of the 20th century, the objects on display tell a panoramic story of the history of Korea. Originally created for settings including royal tombs and palaces, Buddhist temples, scholars' studios, private homes and modern art spaces, most of the objects have never been seen in the UK before."}
{"i":48,"title":"Multiplied wonders: Italian Renaissance woodcuts","raw":"Discover the remarkable world of Italian Renaissance woodcuts, and how they transformed Renaissance Italy, making images, ideas and artistic inventions available to wider audiences than ever before. The first display ever devoted to Italian Renaissance woodcuts, Multiplied wonders explores the development of the medium across Italy between the 15th and mid-16th centuries. Bringing together exceptional works from the British Museum collection, many of which have never previously been displayed, the exhibition reveals the extraordinary variety, ambition and ingenuity of one of Europe's earliest printmaking techniques. Created as affordable images for everyday use, woodcuts served many purposes in Renaissance life. They were pasted onto walls for devotion, carried in pockets and used on playing cards and maps, thereby circulating ideas, information and artistic inventions to wide audiences. Because they were handled, displayed and reused, relatively few survive today. Following a journey through the artistic centres of Venice, Rome, Tuscany and Emilia, the works range from rare early devotional prints and intricate chiaroscuro woodcuts to spectacular designs by artists including Titian and Parmigianino. The display also highlights the close collaboration between leading artists and specialist printmakers, whose technical skill transformed woodcuts into works of remarkable sophistication."}
{"i":49,"title":"Samurai","raw":"Discover the reality behind a millennium of myth at this sweeping exhibition which focused on the legendary Japanese warriors. The samurai is an iconic figure, evoking images of formidable fighters possessing ideals of courage, honour and self-sacrifice. Yet much of what we think we know about samurai is invented tradition. Our concept of samurai today has its origins in medieval reality. A distinct warrior class – known in Japan as bushi – emerged and gained political dominance from the 1100s. But during a prolonged period of peace, beginning in 1615, the samurai moved away from the battlefield to become an elite social class that also included women. Samurai men formed the government, serving as ministers and bureaucrats. Many became leaders in scholarship and the arts, as patrons, poets and painters, in a world where intellectual pursuits were just as important as swordsmanship. By the late 19th century, the hereditary status of samurai had been abolished and their supposed chivalric values developed into the myth of bushido, or 'the way of the warrior'. This new code, promoting values of patriotism and self-sacrifice, was harnessed during Japan's period of colonial expansion and military aggression. The modern mythology of the 'samurai' emerged gradually across the 20th century through interactions between Japan and the wider world, with idealised images of the historical warriors increasingly consumed by foreign visitors."}
{"i":50,"title":"Hawaiʻi: a kingdom crossing oceans","raw":"The exhibition brought together remarkable objects – from feathered cloaks worn by chiefs and finely carved deities, to powerful shark-toothed weapons and bold contemporary works by Kānaka ʻŌiwi (Native Hawaiian) artists. In 1824, the young King Liholiho and Queen Kamāmalu travelled across vast oceans on a journey that would mark a turning point in the history of their kingdom, Hawaiʻi. The exhibition commemorated over 200 years since this ill-fated royal visit and shed light on Hawaiʻi's history and culture through an exploration of the complex and enduring relationship between the Hawaiian and British nations. Building on years of collaboration with Native Hawaiian artists, practitioners and scholars, the show centred on indigenous knowledge, shining new light on exceptional objects and extraordinary stories. Shaped together with Hawaiian knowledge-bearers, the exhibition showcased seldom-seen international loans alongside the remarkable collections at the British Museum – one of the largest in the world outside of Hawaiʻi."}
{"i":51,"title":"Admonitions of the instructress to the court ladies","raw":"This masterpiece is considered a milestone in Chinese painting history. Traditionally attributed to Gu Kaizhi (about AD 345–406), it probably dates to between AD 400 and 700. Due to conservation precautions, it can only be displayed for six weeks a year. The Admonitions Scroll depicts a poetic text composed by an official Zhang Hua (about AD 232–300) aimed at correcting the behaviour of an empress. The Scroll carries inscriptions by later collectors including the Qianlong emperor (r. 1736–1795). The British Museum purchased the Scroll from Captain Clarence Johnson (1870–1937) who was in Beijing in 1900 during the Boxer Rebellion (1899–1901). Originally a handscroll, the painting and later inscriptions were separated and mounted onto panels in 1914."}
{"i":52,"title":"Tapestry of trees","raw":"The installation gave visitors the chance to immerse themselves in Sturgeon's artistic impression of a medieval woodland, created from trees and plants typical of those found in East Sussex, where the Battle of Hastings – the key event of the Tapestry – took place nearly 1,000 years ago. Thirty-seven silver birch trees (Betula pendula) – known as the Lady of the Forest – created a canopy across the Museum's forecourt, their black and white bark echoing shades from the Tapestry and their branches casting a dappled light on the ground. Their rootballs were wrapped in hessian, recalling the Tapestry's textures and vivid original colours, and provided places to rest and contemplate. Other carefully curated trees and plants, including hazel, hawthorn, field maples, ferns and grasses, in similarly wrapped planters, were woven through the colonnade, allowing visitors to continue to experience the woodland atmosphere as they approached the Museum entrance."}
{"i":53,"title":"Queen Elizabeth II memorial","raw":"Visitors to this exhibition were among the first to view designs for a permanent memorial to Queen Elizabeth II in central London. Featuring a 10ft bronze statue of Elizabeth as a young Queen, on a 14ft plinth, the memorial in St James' Park will commemorate the late monarch and her lifelong commitment to public service. The memorial is expected to be completed in 2028. Designed by acclaimed sculptor Martin Jennings, to be sculpted in bronze, the statue will show Her Majesty in an early stage of her reign, dressed in the robes of the Order of the Garter, using a famous painting by Pietro Annigoni as inspiration. Mr Jennings will also sculpt a statue of Prince Philip, the country's longest-serving consort, at a similar age wearing a uniform of Admiral-of-the-Fleet. His statue will be located close to Queen Elizabeth's, in recognition of the support he gave her during her 70-year reign."}
{"i":54,"title":"Early Netherlandish drawings","raw":"In the 1400s and 1500s, the Low Countries were a powerhouse of artistic innovation. This was a transformative period for Netherlandish drawings, as they evolved from preparatory studies to works of art in their own right. Featuring around 120 works by artists including Rogier van der Weyden, Lucas van Leyden, Pieter Bruegel the Elder and Hendrick Goltzius, this exhibition charted the development of drawing in the Low Countries (present-day Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) before 1600. The exceptional breadth and quality of the British Museum's holdings provided a unique opportunity to present a comprehensive account of drawing from this region. Early Netherlandish drawings are extremely rare, as they were made as functional objects in the workshop and were not typically retained. This was unlike Italy or the German-speaking lands, where the taste for collecting drawings in the 1500s ensured the survival of a higher number of works from this period. Drawings were central to the design and production of works of art in different media, including tapestries, paintings, stained glass and prints – and surviving examples shed light on the creativity and collaboration of Netherlandish artists. Based on a research project and supported by a grant from the International Music and Art Foundation, the exhibition highlighted new findings that have come from combining curatorial and conservation expertise along with scientific analysis. New research into drawings previously only connected to Rogier van der Weyden and his circle, for instance, reveals they originate directly from Rogier's workshop and must have been drawn by his pupils as part of their training."}
{"i":55,"title":"The Asante Ewer","raw":"What can a medieval bronze jug reveal about the connections between England and Ghana? This display revealed the extraordinary story of the Asante Ewer. Made in England between 1340 and 1405, the Asante Ewer later travelled to West Africa. In the 1880s it was photographed in a courtyard of the royal palace of the Asantehene, king of the Asante people, in Kumasi (in present-day Ghana). During the Anglo-Asante War of 1896 it was looted by British forces and subsequently purchased by the British Museum. A second ewer, also taken in 1896 and shown in the same photograph, was presented to the Prince of Wales's Own (West Yorkshire) Regiment. This display reunited these two jugs. A major research project into the Asante Ewer – one of the finest examples of late medieval English bronze casting – has helped to further trace the story of its journey to Ghana, and its status and significance in West Africa. Its location in the centre of the palace courtyard, in what appears to be a shrine, embedded in the roots of sacred trees, suggests it was an object of significant cultural or ritual value. Remarkable for surviving the long-distance journey from Europe to West Africa and back, the Asante Ewer has had vastly different lives, from a luxury English jug to sacred West African vessel, to colonial loot taken by British troops."}
{"i":56,"title":"Ian Hamilton Finlay and the French Revolution","raw":"This display explored prints by Scottish poet, writer, artist and gardener Ian Hamilton Finlay (1925–2006) on the theme of revolution and its relationship to contemporary society. Finlay became known from the late 1950s for his poetry but in the 1960s his output expanded to include the production of prints and three-dimensional works of art in stone, metal, neon and glass, which he produced in collaboration with various craftspeople. He also became a dedicated gardener, developing a conceptual garden at his remote home on the edge of the Pentland Hills, southwest of Edinburgh, which incorporated many of his works of art. He named his garden Little Sparta after the ancient Greek city, a militaristic rival to Athens, reflecting his deep interest in classical history. In the 1980s, Finlay's interest in the French Revolution began to dominate his work. He was fascinated by revolutions and ruptures, and how high ideals could easily lead to violence and corruption. The 12 prints in this display, made between 1984 and 1992, formed part of Finlay's engagement with the French Revolution as a subject. They were from a group of 26 prints donated in 2025 by Prof Stephen Bann, an art historian who has written extensively on Finlay and who corresponded with the artist for many years."}
{"i":57,"title":"Reinvention and revolution: Pierre Alexandre Wille","raw":"This display explored the works of a draughtsman who lived through one of the most momentous periods in European history. In a career that lasted from the 1760s to the 1830s, Pierre Alexandre Wille (1748–1837) experienced some of the most turbulent events in French history. A pupil of Jean Baptiste Greuze (1725–1805), Wille established himself by imitating the genre scenes that won Greuze renown at the Salons of the 1760s, showing an inclination for delicacy that suited the tastes of the ancien régime. Yet Wille the man embraced the Revolution, even joining the republican army, and he busied himself chronicling the personalities of the day. Ultimately, however, the Revolution proved more of a challenge than an opportunity. The younger Wille had embraced a variety of styles but, in later life, he found it difficult to adapt to the more austere taste of Napoleonic France. By the time he died, he had long been reduced to poverty. During his lifetime and since, Wille was renowned more for his drawings than his paintings. The British Museum has been acquiring his work since the 19th century, and its collection has recently doubled in size following a bequest from the dealer and philanthropist Colin Clark (1935–2020). This gift included some of the finest finished drawings by Wille; one of the most powerful is the portrait which claims to show the 'Angel of Assassination' Charlotte Corday, made in her prison cell days or even hours before her execution. This celebration of Clark's bequest illustrated Wille's world through his drawings and those of his peers, revealing him to have been a talented draughtsman whose works offer a fascinating insight into French society before, during and after the Revolution."}
{"i":58,"title":"Hiroshige: artist of the open road","raw":"Join Hiroshige on a lyrical journey through Edo Japan, exploring the natural beauty of the landscape and the pleasures of urban life. The first exhibition on Hiroshige to be held at the British Museum, and the first on the artist in London for more than a quarter of a century, this was a visually stunning portrait of a country about to change forever. Born during an unsettled time in Japan's history, Utagawa Hiroshige (1797–1858) went on to become one of the country's most talented, prolific and popular artists. As Japan confronted the encroaching outside world, Hiroshige's calm artistic vision connected with – and reassured – people at every level of society. From fashionable figures and energetic city views to remote landscapes and impressions of the natural world, Hiroshige captured many aspects of life in the Japan of his time. Stunning bird-and-flower prints reveal his poetic feeling for nature while his evocative landscapes reflected the growing interest in travel across Japan. Hiroshige portrayed his world sometimes as it was, but often the way he imagined it could be. Possessed of remarkable technical skills, both as a colourist and draftsman, Hiroshige had a sympathetic regard for people from all walks of life. Unlike most other print designers of his day, he came from a samurai family, but crossed social boundaries to devote himself to depicting popular customs. His work was affordable, too – along with celebrated landscape prints, he also designed hundreds of hand-held, disposable fans that were available to all."}
{"i":59,"title":"Ancient India: living traditions","raw":"Where does the image of the beloved and playful Hindu god Ganesha, with his elephant head and rounded belly, originate? What inspired depictions of the serene Buddha and Jain enlightened teachers? Reaching back more than 2,000 years, this exhibition explored the origins of Hindu, Jain and Buddhist sacred art in the ancient and powerful nature spirits of India, and the spread of this art beyond the subcontinent. One of the first major exhibitions in the world to look at the early devotional art of India from a multi-faith, contemporary and global perspective, it highlighted the inspiration behind now-familiar depictions of the deities and enlightened teachers of these world religions – and how they were shared across the Indian Ocean to Southeast Asia and along the Silk Roads to East Asia. Colourful, multi-sensory and atmospheric, this exhibition was developed in collaboration with an advisory community panel of practising Hindus, Buddhists and Jains. These living religious traditions and their sacred art are now integral to the daily lives of almost two billion people around the world including in the UK. Key loans from our community partners helped to tell this contemporary story."}
{"i":60,"title":"Sufi life and art","raw":"The word Sufi often conjures up images of Turkish whirling dervishes, turning gracefully round themselves in a mystical ceremony. But outside the world of Islamic mysticism, not much is known of the beliefs and practices in which such ceremonies are rooted, or about the communities that embrace them. This display explored Sufi life and art through a selection of objects that represent Sufi communities in the Middle East, North and Sub-Saharan Africa, and northern India. This mystical movement, which first appeared in the Islamic world during the eighth century AD, has been defined as a pathway to a personal experience with God. Among the British Museum objects on display were Islamic artefacts imbued with Sufi connotations. Some, such as alms bowls, are linked overtly to dervishes, while others have a more subtle connection, such as calligraphic works, miniature paintings and wall tiles. Sufis come from all walks of life, crossing the boundaries of class, ethnicity and regionality. The display explored such themes as mystical love, poverty and asceticism, as well as Sufi influence upon the wider societies they belong to."}
{"i":61,"title":"Nordic noir: works on paper from Edvard Munch to Mamma Andersson","raw":"This display explored the macabre, melancholy and sometimes provocative themes that run through aspects of Nordic art. Featuring over 150 works by 100 artists from the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), Nordic noir opened with two important prints by Edvard Munch (1863–1944), arguably the most famous artist to emerge from the Nordic region and explored how the graphic arts continued to flourish and evolve after his death. It included the charming prints of the Norwegian colour woodcut school of the 1940s; Danish prints tackling post-war angst and the threat of the Cold War; and political art from the 1970s in the form of vibrant screenprints by the Norwegian GRAS (Grass) group. The contemporary Nordic artists represented in this exhibition delved into the world of Norse myth, struggles with mental health and political issues such as feminism or the rights of the Indigenous Sámi people. The dominant theme for many, however, is nature and the vital urgency to preserve the fjords, mountains and forests unique to the region. One artist who has been extremely vocal on the subject is the Icelandic-Danish artist Olafur Eliasson (b. 1967) who, in 2024, made an extraordinary watercolour especially for the exhibition using glacial meltwater to highlight the effects of global warming. The exhibition was a culmination of a five-year project supported by AKO Foundation to acquire graphic works on paper from the Nordic region. It addressed the evocative power and haunting beauty of contemporary Nordic art, and how the region's artists continue to develop the legacy of Munch's emotional expressiveness and creative inventiveness."}
{"i":62,"title":"Edward Allington: making poetry with solid objects","raw":"This display delved into the imagination of Edward Allington (1951–2017), one of the leading voices of the 1980s 'New British Sculpture' movement. Alongside artists such as Antony Gormley, Alison Wilding and Anish Kapoor, Allington broke away from the minimalism and formalism of previous decades to investigate questions of collective memory, pop, kitsch, authenticity and the hidden meaning in everyday objects. Allington once described sculpture as 'looking at real things by making real things. It is making poetry with solid objects'. Fascinated by the survival of classical forms in modern life – replicated across media from tea towels to plastic snowglobes – Allington combined humour with deep cultural reflection. Though celebrated as a sculptor, drawing was at the heart of his practice. Working on old ledger paper, he was interested in the contrast provided by these delicate records of daily life, overwritten by the stark volumes of his enigmatic sculptural forms. A much-loved teacher and writer, Allington influenced generations of artists through his role as Professor of Sculpture at the Slade. This newly donated group of drawings offered fresh insight into his career, revealing the wit, curiosity and roving intellect that defined his practice."}
{"i":63,"title":"In the company of friends: portrait drawing in 17th-century London","raw":"This display celebrated the recent acquisition of two rare 17th-century drawings by prominent English portrait painters Samuel Cooper (1609–72) and Richard Gibson (1615–90). Both artists were part of a thriving artistic community that grew in London in the second half of the 17th century. The circle also included leading painters Sir Peter Lely (1618–80), Charles Beale (1660–1714 or 26) and Sir Godfrey Kneller (1646–1723). Their world was reflected in the drawings selected for this display – informal and intimate portraits of family members, friends, tradespeople and servants, as well as of fellow artists. Cooper's tender drawing memorialises his cousin's infant son, who died at only a few weeks old. The significance of the drawing was recognised following its sale at auction in 2023, and after an export stop barred the drawing from leaving the country, it became the first work by the artist to enter the British Museum collection. Gibson's portrait of a young gentleman, possibly his son-in-law, has the formality of an official portrait and likely functioned as a family keepsake. Both drawings contrast with the casual everyday poses – smoking, playing the recorder – depicted in Beale's sketchbook. Lely's lively sketch of his daughter illustrates the devotion of a father to his child, while Kneller's portrait of his friend and patron, the art collector Hugh Howard, gives a sense of shared purpose and love of art. Collectively these drawings gave a personal insight into the lives of their creators, and of the people in their intimate circle."}
{"i":64,"title":"Colour and line: Watteau drawings","raw":"This display showcased drawings by one of the most gifted, versatile draughtsmen of the 18th century. Antoine Watteau (probably 1684–1721) was one of the most influential, prolific artists active in 18th-century France. In a short career lasting little more than a decade, he pushed painting in new directions that were to guide generations of French artists, blending genre, mythology and rococo frivolity in works so novel that they heralded a new genre: the fête galante. Watteau won particular renown for the thousands of drawings he produced during his life. Drawing, as contemporaries realised, was his favourite creative outlet, bringing him 'much more pleasure than his finished pictures'. He drew incessantly, and developed ideas about the value of drawing that were every bit as original as his paintings. Instead of making figure studies for a picture as academic practice dictated, Watteau drew speculatively, conceiving ideas that might be slotted into a picture months or even years later. The sheets he produced were to be enjoyed in their own right as the first, freshest iterations of ideas that he thought were dulled when translated into paint. Nowhere were these qualities more appreciated than in Britain, and over the past two centuries British collectors have endowed the British Museum with one of the finest collections of Watteau drawings in the world. Featuring almost every autograph work in the collection, this display was the first exhibition of the Museum's Watteau holdings to be held since 1980. Its varied contents demonstrated Watteau's extraordinary talent as a draughtsman, his sophisticated, novel approach to drawing, and the prestige that his graphic works enjoyed among Europe's connoisseurs."}
{"i":65,"title":"Raphael to Cozens: drawings from the Richard Payne Knight Bequest","raw":"Raphael, Michelangelo and Thomas Gainsborough are among the masters whose work was on display at this exhibition celebrating a transformative 19th-century bequest. The antiquarian and art collector Richard Payne Knight (1751–1824) bequeathed over a thousand drawings to the British Museum. The superb quality of his collection transformed the Museum's graphic holdings and established it as a place where visitors could admire old master drawings alongside works of contemporary British art. Born into a wealthy family of ironmasters from Herefordshire, Payne Knight was educated in the classics and complemented his studies, as many on the 'Grand Tour' did, with extended travels in Italy. There he pursued his interests in ancient civilisations and languages, and formed the aesthetic sensibilities and tastes that would later shape his collecting and writing. His substantial financial means enabled him to acquire the best drawings available on London's late 18th-century art market. The exhibition explored the breadth of Payne Knight's intellectual interests through some of the most celebrated works from the bequest. Drawings by Renaissance and Baroque painters like Raphael, Michelangelo and Claude Lorrain were shown alongside work by Payne Knight's contemporaries, including Thomas Gainsborough and John Robert Cozens. Together the drawings revealed Payne Knight's enthusiasm for landscapes and for the romance of the classical past, as well as his admiration for the verve and spontaneity of the artists whose works he bought."}
{"i":66,"title":"Robert Healy to John Minton: the Nina Drucker bequest","raw":"This display celebrated the bequest of Nina Drucker (1934–2022), a collector of 18th to 20th-century art and long-term supporter of the British Museum. Having studied piano at the Royal Academy of Music's Junior Academy and regularly attended concerts throughout her life, Drucker was a keen musician – and was also passionate about the visual arts. The bequest comprises 30 prints and drawings, selected from well over a hundred that were densely hung on every available surface of her north London flat. It includes works by artists not previously represented in the Museum collection. The selection showed some of the highlights from the bequest alongside works from the collection, which she knew well from attending exhibitions, visits to the Prints and Drawings Study Room, and through Collection online. A rare drawing by Irish portraitist Robert Healy (1743–71) is the first work by this artist to enter the British Museum. Landscape watercolours by David Cox (1783–1859) and William Turner of Oxford (1789–1862) complement existing holdings by these artists. Some of Drucker's favourite works, prints by Christopher Richard Wynne Nevinson (1889–1946) and a group of drawings by John Minton (1917–1957), strengthen the Museum's holdings of British modern art."}
{"i":67,"title":"Mumbai + London: new perspectives on the ancient world","raw":"Three sculptures from cultures rarely seen side by side were brought together from ancient Egypt, the Mediterranean and India as part of a groundbreaking project. Co-curated with one of India's leading museums, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS), this display highlighted the Mumbai museum's ambitious Ancient World Project, realised in collaboration with the British Museum as part of a long-standing partnership between the two institutions. It reflected the varied ways ancient civilisations imagined the divine and gave it physical form, using the same approach as a recent exhibition at CSMVS. The next phase of the project, which opened in Mumbai in December 2025, looks more widely at ancient India's relationship with the world around it. Standing in conversation with each other, the British Museum sculptures – of the Indian god Vishnu, the ancient Egyptian goddess Sekhmet and the Roman god Bacchus (or Greek Dionysos) – posed intriguing questions around how global co-curation can unlock new insights. Does seeing these sculptures together change the way we understand them? What do they have in common and what makes them distinct? While the gods of ancient Egypt, the Greek world and Rome are no longer worshipped, India has maintained its traditions of sacred sculpture and religious practice. Seeing their depictions together opens up a space for looking at and thinking differently about ancient cultures. The display highlighted how, in contrast to the focus on the ideal human body in Greek and Roman art, Indian gods, like ancient Egyptian deities, often combine human and animal form to convey spiritual meaning."}
{"i":68,"title":"Piet Mondrian to Alison Wilding: the Karsten Schubert bequest","raw":"This display celebrated the bequest of 10 drawings to the Museum, including works by Pablo Picasso and Bridget Riley, by art dealer Karsten Schubert. Born in Berlin, Schubert (1961–2019) was a long-term supporter of the British Museum. He established his first eponymous gallery in London in 1986 after working at the Lisson Gallery, London, where he became familiar with the avant-garde British art scene. Although he exhibited and sold modern and contemporary art, he had a deep knowledge of art history and museums were important to him throughout his life. Drawn from Schubert's own collection, the bequest entered the Museum following his death at the age of 57. It includes early 20th-century drawings by Pablo Picasso (1881–1973) and Piet Mondrian (1872–1944) as well as drawings by artists with whom Schubert worked and whose art he sold: Bridget Riley (born 1931), Georg Baselitz (born 1938), Michael Landy (born 1963) and Alison Wilding (born 1948). In addition to his bequest, Schubert donated 45 works on paper to the Museum during his lifetime, a selection of which were also shown here."}
{"i":69,"title":"Michelangelo: the last decades","raw":"In 1534, Michelangelo left Florence for Rome, never to see his native city again. He was 59, which many contemporaries regarded as old, but for Michelangelo this move marked the beginning of a dramatic new chapter which would fundamentally shape his experiences as an artist and as a man. This exhibition looked at the last 30 years of Michelangelo's remarkable life, when his return to Rome – having been summoned by Pope Clement VII to paint a fresco of the Last Judgment in the Sistine Chapel – brought him new commissions and reunited him with some of his closest friends. Having secured his reputation with works including his famous statue of David, Michelangelo was already the most celebrated artist in Europe. But, rather than resting on his laurels, his Christian faith, intellectual engagement and hope for salvation propelled him to produce some of the most striking works of his career. Forceful preparatory drawings for the Last Judgment, which were on show, as well as the monumental Epifania – one of only two surviving cartoons by Michelangelo – demonstrate his renewed energy and desire to challenge himself. These works were displayed alongside studies for Michelangelo's grand architectural projects as well as drawings, poems and intimate letters that reveal his personal passions and anxieties. Rather than showing an artist in decline, this exhibition showed the astonishing dynamism that Michelangelo brought to his work in the final decades of his life as he explored salvation and confronted his mortality."}
{"i":70,"title":"Silk Roads","raw":"Camel caravans crossing desert dunes, merchants trading silks and spices at bazaars – these are the images that come to mind when we think of the Silk Roads. But the reality goes far beyond this. Rather than a single trade route from East to West, the Silk Roads were made up of overlapping networks linking communities across Asia, Africa and Europe, from East Asia to Britain, and from Scandinavia to Madagascar. This major exhibition unravelled how the journeys of people, objects and ideas that formed the Silk Roads shaped cultures and histories. The Silk Roads were in use for millennia, but this visually stunning show focused on a defining period in their history, from about AD 500 to 1000. This time witnessed significant leaps in connectivity and the rise of universal religions that linked communities across continents. Working with 29 national and international partners to present objects from many regions and cultures alongside those from the British Museum collection, the exhibition offered a unique chance to see objects from the length and breadth of the Silk Roads. From Tang Chinese ceramics destined for ports in the Middle East to Indian garnets found in Suffolk, they revealed the astonishing reach of these networks."}
{"i":71,"title":"Hew Locke: what have we here?","raw":"What have we here? In a collaborative exhibition exploring histories of British imperial power, renowned Guyanese-British artist Hew Locke turned his lens on the British Museum collection. In this groundbreaking show, Locke (born 1959) explored, questioned and challenged narratives of British imperialism through objects from the British Museum collection, alongside specially commissioned new works. Offering a fresh perspective on the British Museum's history and collection, which are closely tied to those of the British empire, Locke explored the messy and complex ways museums are implicated in these histories. Locke, who was born in Edinburgh and spent his formative years in Georgetown, Guyana, focused on Britain's historical interactions with Africa, India and the Caribbean, all of which had a significant impact on the history of Guyana – informing a very personal exploration of the objects on display. Using interventionist techniques, he reframed historical objects, from the earliest surviving drawings of Indigenous Americans by a European artist to a Guyanese Akawaio feather headdress. The Watchers, newly commissioned sculptural works by Locke, formed a central part of the exhibition, with figures observing visitors from vantage points around the exhibition, and spilling out into the Museum's Enlightenment gallery (Room 1)."}
{"i":72,"title":"Picasso: printmaker","raw":"Pablo Picasso (1881–1973) was one of the most inventive and influential talents ever to explore the medium of print. In addition to his many paintings, sculptures and drawings, the Málaga-born artist made over 2,400 prints during his career. From his early years as an artist in Paris to his old age in the South of France, printmaking offered Picasso the opportunity to develop ideas, tell stories and embark on new creative adventures. This exhibition offered insights into Picasso's life through his art, including his complex relationships with women and his partnerships with printers, publishers and other artists. Spanning his entire career, it followed his engagement with different printmaking techniques and his changing approaches to making art. The British Museum holds by far the UK's largest and most representative collection of Picasso's prints. The exhibition featured prints made in the early 1900s, before and after Picasso's breakthrough painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (1907), which paved the way for Cubism. It also included a group of prints from the Vollard Suite, a series of 100 etchings made in the 1930s that shows the influence of classical art on Picasso's work and reflects his tumultuous personal life."}
{"i":73,"title":"Rethinking the British Museum","raw":"We are delighted to announce that we have appointed Lina Ghotmeh — Architecture (LG—A), led by the multi award-winning Lina Ghotmeh, to redesign our Western Range galleries. These galleries represent over a third of our display space, and house the Rosetta Stone, the Parthenon Sculptures and the Assyrian lion hunt. From over 60 entrants, the Museum invited five internationally-acclaimed teams to take part in a two-stage architectural competition. LG—A's bold vision for the galleries was then displayed in the newly reopened Reading Room. The French-Lebanese architect Ghotmeh likens each new project to an archaeological dig, looking at a building's past to support the reimagination and 'story' of its future, with sustainability at its heart and a close observance to the use of natural materials. The Museum is excited to work with the LG—A-led team to rethink the Museum's building, which will be an ambitious transformation of the gallery spaces, public areas and back-of-house facilities."}
{"i":74,"title":"Gifts of love and friendship: Max Beckmann and Marie-Louise von Motesiczky","raw":"In 2021 the British Museum acquired a significant group of prints and drawings by Max Beckmann (1884–1950), one of the major German artists of the first half of the 20th century. He gave all of these works (apart from one woodcut) to Marie-Louise von Motesiczky (1906–96), a former pupil of his, who kept them in her possession until her death. Beckmann first got to know Marie-Louise through her cultured and wealthy family in Vienna in 1920 and it was on a visit to them that he was introduced to her friend Mathilde von Kaulbach (1904‒1986) (known as 'Quappi'), who was to become his second wife. The group of five drawings and three prints covers the artist's career from the 1920s to 1947, when he and Quappi left Europe permanently for America. They were displayed with other examples of Beckmann's graphic art from the Museum collection. The purchase of this extraordinary group of works on paper was supported by the Marie-Louise von Motesiczky Charitable Trust and the David and Liza Brown Bequest Fund through the Art Fund and the Oppenheimer Fund. In addition to this generous financial assistance, the Marie-Louise von Motesiczky Charitable Trust gave an additional drypoint print to ensure that the group remained together."}