=== EXAMPLES: raw curatorial text, and the summary that was accepted ===

RAW: Enter the spellbinding world of visionary Spanish painter Francisco de Zurbarán. Spend time with his paintings, celebrated for their vivid naturalism and deep emotional power. Move between soaring altarpieces and exquisite still lifes in the first major UK exhibition of this great artist from Baroque Seville. A peer of Murillo and Velázquez, Zurbarán stands out for his drama, mystery and vision. From the rind of a lemon to the timeless gaze of a saint, he finds an intensity in the ordinary. Strong light and deep shadow bring real faces, soft fabrics, fresh fruit and flowers to life. His paintings unite stillness, focus and faith.
  →  First UK exhibition of Zurbarán.

RAW: In the summer of 1869, Monet and Renoir – then young, ambitious artists and close friends – set up their easels side by side at La Grenouillère, a fashionable riverside resort just outside Paris. Working 'en plein air’ (out-of-doors), the artists painted the same lively scene of fashionable Parisians at leisure – though their artworks reveal remarkably different approaches. For the first time in nearly twenty years, the National Gallery is reuniting two of these celebrated paintings created at La Grenouillère, side by side once more. Look closely at each brushstroke and compare the artists' individual Impressionist style and witness a close friendship that helped shape one of the most influential movements in Western art.
  →  Two Impressionist paintings at the same motif.

RAW: Discover the breathtaking landscapes of one of Austria’s greatest painters, Ferdinand Georg Waldmüller (1793–1865). Stroll through forests, scale rugged peaks and marvel at majestic skies across Austria and Sicily. Take in the great trees of Vienna’s Prater Park, the magnificent lakes and mountains of the Salzkammergut region and the tranquil hills and ruins of Sicily. Pause, reflect and wonder at pictures alive with intense colour and light. See why Waldmüller’s work can be compared to the Pre-Raphaelites. Admire the precise brushstrokes which shape each leaf, twig and flower. Explore how he found beauty in nature’s imperfections, through his images of aged trunks and bare branches. Find serenity in the heart of London at this first-ever exhibition dedicated to Waldmüller's landscapes. Exhibition organised by the National Gallery, London in partnership with the Belvedere, Vienna
  →  First UK exhibition of Waldmüller.

RAW: As part of our annual Take One Picture programme, children from across the UK have made artworks inspired by ‘A Regatta on the Grand Canal’ by Canaletto. The painting shows a colourful boat race taking place in Venice. Crowds of people cheer on the gondolas as they race towards the finish line. Children have made a wide range of imaginative projects, all coming from their own questions and ideas about the painting. Who is going to win the race? What’s under the water? Why do the boats look like dragons? This year’s exhibition features artworks from 35 primary schools and is on display in the Roden Centre for Creative Learning.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by Canaletto.

RAW: Fall in love with Renoir and his Impressionist paintings at the National Gallery. Discover Renoir’s gift for showing love, friendship, and everyday emotion in this Impressionist exhibition. See couples waltzing in the summer air and lovers stealing a glance, families sharing a quiet moment and friends raising a glass, all through the eyes of an artist unmatched in capturing the complexities of how people connect. Experience Renoir at his peak in the 1860s to 1880s, experimenting with style and theme to become an innovator of Impressionism. Walk with him through Montmartre in his iconic painting 'Bal au Moulin de la Galette' (1876) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, on display in the UK for the first time. Explore the sun-dappled gardens and swirling dance halls of Paris through 40 paintings, brought together from collections across the world.
  →  Renoir gathered around the theme of love.

RAW: Portraiture as we know it begins with van Eyck. His vision and skill launched painting into a new era of unrivalled realism. Watchful eyes, a hint of stubble, wrinkles, flushed cheeks. Van Eyck captured his subjects in all their intimate details. Though these people sat for their portraits 600 years ago, they feel alive today. ‘Van Eyck: The Portraits’ brings together from across Europe all nine of the artist’s known painted portraits, making up half of his surviving works worldwide. Breathing life into van Eyck’s world, the exhibition introduces the men and women he spent his life around. They are not kings, queens and aristocrats; they are successful craftsmen, merchants and the artist’s relatives. This is a story of people. This is the moment when access to art widened.
  →  All of Van Eyck's portraits together.

RAW: Across Germany’s major cities, a new generation of artists emerged between 1900 and 1918 to change the rules of painting. They were the German Expressionists. Made up of two pioneering groups – Die Brücke (The Bridge) and Der Blaue Reiter (The Blue Rider) – these young artists painted raw emotions on canvas with a new intensity. Die Brücke was formed by a group of self-taught artists. Rebelling against conservative society, they lived and worked together in the bohemian corners of Dresden and other cities, before moving to Berlin, Germany’s rapidly modernising capital. For them, colour became a way to defy tradition and express themselves in new ways. Der Blaue Reiter came together in Munich around the painters Wassily Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. The group divided their time between the bustling Munich streets and the lush landscapes around rural Murnau, 40 miles south of the city. There, the lakes and mountains fed their creative vision, full of bright colours and striking shapes.
  →  Fifty German Expressionist works.

RAW: Step into the world of George Stubbs, the visionary British painter. Marvel at his monumental portrait of a rearing racehorse, ‘Scrub’. In the 1750s, Stubbs spent 18 months in a remote barn in Horkstow, Lincolnshire. Hidden away, he devoted his time to studying and drawing the anatomy of horses. What resulted was the most thorough study on the subject for over a hundred years. Incredibly, Stubbs’s pictures of horses are still some of the most accurate ever painted, all while capturing their unique characters. In this exhibition, you’ll meet one of these horses, Scrub. Painted by Stubbs around 1762, we see Scrub rearing in a landscape backdrop — notably without a rider.
  →  George Stubbs, master of horse painting.

RAW: In an interplay of light and darkness, Joseph Wright of Derby conjures sublime pictures of discovery and learning. 'Wright of Derby: From the Shadows' is the first major exhibition dedicated to the British artist’s ‘candlelight’ paintings. We celebrate and look again at his most admired works. Illuminated faces gather around a variety of objects – from classical sculptures and scientific instruments to bones, bladders and animals. Through his unflinching scenes of people watching, Wright of Derby proposes moral questions about acts of looking. The strong light and deep shadows create drama, reminding us of great painters from earlier centuries like Caravaggio. Challenging the traditionally held view of Wright of Derby as a figurehead of the Enlightenment, this exhibition contributes to the ongoing re-evaluation of the artist, portraying him not merely as a ‘painter of light’. More than virtuoso scenes of dramatic light and shade, Wright of Derby used the night-time to explore deeper and more sombre themes, including death, melancholy, morality, scepticism and the sublime.
  →  Joseph Wright of Derby's candlelight paintings.

RAW: The sower, the woodcutter, a shepherd girl. These are the subjects that made French artist Jean-Francois Millet famous. Marking the 150th anniversary of his death, this is an opportunity to see some of Millet’s best-loved paintings and drawings. Born into a farming family in Normandy, Millet moved to the village of Barbizon in 1849 where he put the people who spent their life working on the land, often the poorest of the poor in 19th-century France, at the heart of his work. He knew these people and his realistic, unsentimental approach to painting them was completely new. See his iconic 'L’Angelus' (1859) from the Musée d’Orsay, Paris, a painting typical of the dignified way he captured the working people of his age. A husband and wife stand with their heads bowed. Lit by an almost ethereal, filtered light, they’ve stopped working in the fields to say the Angelus prayer.
  →  The subjects that made Millet famous.

RAW: See the painting 'The Courtyard of a House in Delft' by Pieter de Hooch through the eyes of a child. Take One Picture is the National Gallery's programme for primary schools. Each year, children make and exhibit artworks in response to one painting in our collection. This year’s painting, by 17th-century Dutch artist de Hooch, has inspired a wide range of projects, from wicker sculptures and cardboard houses to clay tiles and baked apple pies! Presented across three sites in and around the National Gallery, this year's exhibition can be enjoyed as artwork displays and as a digital augmented reality trail.
  →  Children's artworks inspired by de Hooch.

RAW: See the first UK exhibition of Mexico’s much-loved artist, José María Velasco. Velasco, working in Mexico in the 19th century, was a man of many interests. He was fascinated by advances in geology, the archaeology of his home country, the study of local flora, and the increasing presence of industrialisation. He painted the sweeping landscapes of the Valley of Mexico, the home of modern-day Mexico City, with exquisite detail. His impressive panoramic views of the valley reveal allusions to Mexico's historic past and its rapidly modernising present. Velasco was keenly aware of his country’s industrialisation, capturing expanding train lines and factories alongside botanically accurate studies of plants. His scientific eye inspired his art, and his love of geology is clear to see in his detailed depictions of rocks and volcanoes.
  →  Mexico's landscape painter.

RAW: Be blown away by Van Gogh’s most spectacular paintings in our once-in-a-century exhibition. Walk with a pair of lovers beneath a starry night. Look up at swirling clouds and cypress trees swaying in the wind. Stay a little while in Van Gogh’s favourite park, the ‘Poet’s Garden’, or under a shady tree in Saint-Rémy. We’re bringing together your most loved of Van Gogh’s paintings from across the globe, some of which are rarely seen in public. They will be paired together with his extraordinary drawings. Over just two years in the south of France, Van Gogh revolutionised his style in a symphony of poetic colour and texture. He was inspired by poets, writers and artists. We look at this time in Arles and Saint-Rémy as a decisive period in his career. His desire to tell stories produced a landscape of poetic imagination and romantic love on an ambitious scale.
  →  Once-in-a-century Van Gogh exhibition.

RAW: Immerse yourself in 200 years of extraordinary National Gallery stories. From a resident family of 14 and an intrepid travelling agent to ground-breaking scientists and a wartime pianist, NG Stories tells the history of the National Gallery through the people who made us what we are today. There’s a slate mine in Wales where paintings were safely stored during the Second World War. A guard dog who became a member of staff. And a Keeper’s family, with 14 children, who lived in the building and kept diaries. You’ll discover some of the untold personal stories of the Gallery and the special memories we have been privileged to help create for our visitors. From childhood adventures to life-changing first art encounters, our visitors have always been at the heart of what we do.
  →  Two hundred years of Gallery history.

RAW: David Hockney, in his own words, has always been a looker. Throughout his career, Hockney has found inspiration in the work of other artists. He never tires of looking at paintings. For him, there’s magic in it every time, whether that’s enjoying a picture in a gallery or a much-loved poster at home. This very personal show brings together two Hockney paintings, one showing his mother and father and the other depicting his friend, curator Henry Geldzahler. They are displayed with the thread that ties them together, Piero della Francesca’s ‘The Baptism of Christ’. ‘My Parents’ and ‘Looking at Pictures on a Screen’ both include images of paintings from the National Gallery, a place Hockney knows and has loved throughout his long career. The artists whose portraits and landscapes line the walls are to him, his contemporaries. Their paintings inspire him today as much as any other influence on his work. The exhibition, part of our Bicentenary celebrations, is a chance to slow down, to take in what’s in front of us and enjoy life-enhancing art in the Gallery. Just like Hockney’s parents and friend Geldzahler, let’s take a longer look.
  →  Hockney against Piero della Francesca.

RAW: A cyclist cheekily sticking out her tongue, tough youths on Amsterdam's Nieuwendijk, young women in miniskirts. From The Netherlands to Cuba and Japan, Ed van der Elsken chased the same unfiltered energy. Different streets, a different time - and yet you recognise it. He is one of the most beloved Dutch photographers of the twentieth century. But how did his pictures come about? What did he see that others missed? And what did he set aside, sometimes for years, before he was satisfied? The exhibition Ed van der Elsken. Up Close takes you into his studio. Since 2019, the Rijksmuseum and the Nederlands Fotomuseum have looked after his personal archive together, and for the first time the material has been examined in full. Alongside his best-known photographs, you'll see his handwritten notes, contact sheets covered in red marks, darkroom experiments and newly discovered book dummies.
  →  Unfiltered street energy across decades.

RAW: 150 drawings by the illustrator who gave post-war Netherlands a visual language all of its own Jip and Janneke, Pim and Pom, Pluk van de Petteflet. This summer the Rijksmuseum brings together some 150 original drawings by illustrator Fiep Westendorp. From early sketches to the illustrations that have stayed with generations of children. Early sketches, personal drawings, iconic book illustrations and work for Het Parool : you see how versatile Westendorp was, and how her recognisable visual style slowly took shape. Fiep Westendorp (1916–2004) knew from a young age what she wanted to be: an illustrator. She studied first at the Koninklijke School voor Kunst, Techniek en Ambacht (Royal School of Art, Technology and Craft) in 's-Hertogenbosch, then at the Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Academy of Visual Arts) in Rotterdam. In her early sketchbooks you see her style emerging: quick, keen-eyed, full of humour.
  →  150 original drawings by the illustrator.

RAW: This summer, the Rijksmuseum Gardens are home to the work of Carel Visser, the most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century. Visser's sculptures, some as tall as eight metres or as long as five metres, come from museums, private collections and public spaces. Now they are brought together for the very first time. Carel Visser (1928–2015) had little affinity with traditional sculptors' materials such as marble, stone or wood. Iron was his great love. With a cutting torch and welding equipment, he shaped his sculptures from steel plates and beams. Stacking, repetition and symmetry give his sculptures a rigorous structure that never feels cold. You always recognise something in them. A spine. A branch. An animal at rest. Visser always looked to nature and searched for its essence. What do you see?
  →  Most influential Dutch sculptor of the twentieth century.

RAW: In this intimate fashion presentation, 24 worn, altered and reused garments take centre stage. Signs of wear, repair and craftsmanship tell their story: from 17th-century embroidered mules to a dress worn for generations by the Six family.
  →  Dress and textiles: garments from 1640 to 1930.

RAW: One hundred years ago, Willem de Kooning left the Netherlands for a new life in New York, where he became one of the most influential artists of the 20th century. This autumn, he returns, with a major retrospective of his drawings, complemented by a selection of celebrated paintings and sculptures. Alongside the exhibition, two of his most iconic paintings will be displayed in the Gallery of Honour. The exhibition is a collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago and The Willem de Kooning Foundation in New York and can be seen from 9 October 2026 until 17 January 2027. De Kooning drawings are not studies for paintings. For him, drawing was a way of exploring. Through sketching, correcting, repeating, and deliberately surprising himself. This process was fundamental to his art in every medium and is visible on nearly every artwork he completed. "I have to change to stay the same" (1981), is what he liked to say. And so his art never stood still. In over 120 pieces, you see how his drawing evolved across more than 65 years, from early drawings as a student to rapid charcoal sketches.
  →  120 works tracing De Kooning's process.

RAW: Kadir van Lohuizen photographs the energy transition on and around the North Sea Wind turbines hundreds of metres tall, metres-thick underwater cables, colossal platforms on the open sea. The energy transition is unfolding on a scale that's impossible to grasp. Photographer and filmmaker Kadir van Lohuizen turns his camera on places almost no one ever visits: offshore wind farms, hydrogen plants, CO₂ storage sites and data centres. For the exhibition New Energy , Van Lohuizen was granted exclusive access to these sites in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom. It offers a panoramic view of a development that plays out largely out of sight, on the open sea and inside closed, complex installations. This exhibition is part of the Document Netherlands series, the Rijksmuseum's annual photography commission in which a Dutch photographer is asked to research and capture a current social theme. Kadir van Lohuizen is known for his sharp eye and his ability to bring large, complex stories close and make them tangible. His best-known projects deal with the consequences of rising sea levels, the diamond industry, migration in the Americas, and the way six megacities process their waste, as well as the global food industry. Kadir has won numerous photojournalism awards, including the World Press Photo Award for his photo series on waste in the world's cities.
  →  Annual commission to a Dutch photographer.

RAW: Passion, desire, lust, jealousy, cunning and deceit. The Rijksmuseum takes you on a journey into one of the greatest and most important sources of inspiration for artists: The Metamorphoses by the poet Ovid.
  →  Ovid: Bernini, Titian to Rodin, Magritte, Bourgeois.

RAW: At a time when AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, you may ask yourself: when is a photograph real or fake? Yet images have been manipulated, often with surprising ease, since the very beginnings of photography. In FAKE! you will explore 50 historical images from our collection that reveal creative and deceptive visual illusions.
  →  Early photocollages and photomontages.

RAW: The Rijksmuseum presents two versions of Steve McQueen’s 34-hour video artwork, Occupied City.
  →  Amsterdam under occupation, Steve McQueen.

RAW: What was life really like in the 17th century? That’s the museum’s most-asked question. Now, the time has come to find out. At Home in the 17th Century offers an up-close experience of daily life 400 years ago. Immerse yourself in a full day of the 17th century as you walk among the nine diorama-style displays that make up this exhibition — packed with personal stories and unique objects.
  →  Domestic life with Rembrandt, Hals, Vermeer.

RAW: Discover how colonial and contemporary perspectives converge in photographs from the Indian subcontinent. Past meets present in the Crossings exhibition.
  →  Photography from the Indian subcontinent.

RAW: Internationally acclaimed artist Fiona Tan is given carte blanche at the Rijksmuseum. Step into the world of Monomania.
  →  The artist's view on the collection.

RAW: From Shiva and the Buddha to wine casks and weapons. Everything about bronze triggers your senses. For centuries, this material has played a central role in the traditions of Asia. Now you too can experience the beauty of bronze art at last.
  →  Four thousand years of Asian bronze.

RAW: Across the Netherlands, major music festivals draw vast, exuberant crowds. In this series, Eddo Hartmann photographs the individual festivalgoer, both one with the throng and lost against the backdrop of the Dutch events industry.
  →  Dutch festivals photographed.


=== ROWS: one JSON object per line ===

{"i":75,"title":"War rugs: Afghanistan's knotted history","raw":"This display revealed how weavers in Afghanistan have recorded the country's turbulent history in traditional rugs. On 24 December 1979 Soviet troops crossed the border into Afghanistan, beginning a protracted 10-year war. As the country was transformed by conflict, Afghan weavers started to include imagery of modern warfare in their carpets and rugs. Birds were replaced by military helicopters. Guns took the place of flowers. Demons fought alongside tanks. This fusion of traditional crafts with the recording of contemporary history created a new artform: Afghan war rugs. This display presented some of the remarkable rugs from the British Museum collection, alongside a selection of objects that explored Afghanistan's complex past and turbulent present. Located between Asia and the Middle East, Afghanistan has always been a point of connection for different cultures. Yet it was also a strategically important territory that dynasties and empires fought over to control. Afghanistan's traditions of carpet-weaving reflect its ethnic diversity. Weavers from different tribal groups made rugs with their own styles and motifs. However, when much of the population was displaced by the Soviet-Afghan war and driven into refugee camps, these distinctions began to disappear. Hybrid designs emerged, with new kinds of imagery and depictions of events such as the Soviet retreat and the US-led 'war on terror'."}
{"i":76,"title":"New life: Rembrandt and children","raw":"This exhibition gave visitors the chance to discover an intimate drawing of a sleeping child, the first work by Rembrandt to be added to the British Museum collection for decades. The drawing by the renowned 17th-century Dutch artist Rembrandt had been in private collections for over 200 years but was donated to the nation and allocated to the British Museum through the Arts Council's Acceptance in Lieu scheme. This added to the Museum's extensive collection of over 1,000 prints and 72 drawings by Rembrandt (1606–69) and more than 300 drawings by his pupils. The collection was largely assembled in the 18th century, and this was the first Rembrandt drawing to enter the British Museum collection in over 35 years. The drawing, which dates to about 1645, was displayed alongside drawings of children in Dutch and Flemish art, to showcase the practice of drawing from life and depicting domestic subjects. Rembrandt's studies from life of children are among his most tender and endearing drawings and the display featured six drawings of children from different periods of his career – and his ability to capture movement with only a few well-placed lines remained consistent throughout his practice."}
{"i":77,"title":"Contemporary collecting: David Hockney to Cornelia Parker","raw":"This display highlighted the significant collection of contemporary British art held at the Museum through a selection of around 100 prints and drawings, dating from 1960 to today. In 2001 the Museum received a grant from the Rootstein Hopkins Foundation to purchase works on paper by artists based in Britain. Founded by theatre and retail prop designers Adel Rootstein (1930‒92) and Richard Hopkins (1927‒2000), the foundation aimed to support living artists and designers. Around 300 works have been acquired by the Museum as a result, transforming the contemporary Prints and Drawings collection. Presenting around 100 highlights from this group, the exhibition demonstrated the range and diversity of the works acquired, which include prints by David Hockney, Michael Craig-Martin, Cornelia Parker and Yinka Shonibare CBE as well as drawings by Richard Deacon, Celia Paul and Soheila Sokhanvari. It explored the relationship between the Museum's contemporary and historical collections through works of art inspired by art history, including prints and drawings by Pablo Bronstein, Glenn Brown, Ann-Marie James and Jake Garfield. The selection also showed contemporary artists continuing to engage with political and social issues, through works such as Sarah Ball's anonymous portraits of interned people and Joy Gerrard's Vigil/Protest (Westminster 14th March 2021), an ink drawing depicting a vigil and protest following the murder of Sarah Everard in London in 2021."}
{"i":78,"title":"Auguste Bartholdi: Liberty Enlightening the World","raw":"From September 15, 2026, to January 31, 2027, the Musée d’Orsay is dedicating an exhibition and an immersive virtual reality experience to Auguste Bartholdi, a leading figure in 19th-century French sculpture and creator of iconic works, as well as to his masterpiece, “Liberty Enlightening the World.” Planned as a gift from France to the United States and initially intended to commemorate the centenary of American independence in 1876, the statue was finally inaugurated ten years later, in 1886. Between times, Bartholdi and his supporters had to show proof of imagination, audaciousness and tenacity in order to design, promote and create what was then the largest statue in the world (46 meters high, 93 meters with its pedestal). Organized in partnership with the Bartholdi Museum in the city of Colmar,the exhibition looks back on Auguste Bartholdi’s career, an Alsatian sculptor with a visionary temperament whose monumental ambition asserted itself in his earliest projects and was further nurtured by the political upheavals of his day. It explores the birth of the Statue of Liberty, the result of a project originally conceived for the Suez Canal and then turned into an allegorical figure celebrating American independence. The idea, promoted by the Franco-American Union, came to fruition following Bartholdi’s visits to the United States and the remarkable efforts made to raise the necessary funding. Images of the statue were widely disseminated even before its completion, thanks to numerous articles published in the illustrated press and presentation of full-scale components during the 1876 and 1878 World’s Fairs. The stages of its construction are perfect illustrations of the union of art and engineering, from the technical choices envisioned by Viollet-le-Duc and materialized by Gustave Eiffel to the hammering of the copper in Parisian workshops and complete assembly of the statue. The journey concluded with its transport to New York, completion of the pedestal and the"}
{"i":79,"title":"Marie and Félix Bracquemond, decorative arts drawings","raw":"In 2024, a significant set of almost 200 paintings and drawings by Marie and Félix Bracquemond was generously donated to the Musée d’Orsay by Armel and Nicolas Jundt, descendants of the artist couple. The same year, several purchases at public auctions were added to this donation to complete it. Marie Bracquemond (1840-1916) was one of the female figures in the Impressionist movement, alongside Mary Cassatt and Berthe Morisot. As for Félix Bracquemond (1833-1914), he was one of the leading engravers of his time, and was also close to the Impressionist circles. He is particularly known for the Rousseau dinner service decor, which marked the rise of Japonisme. From 1872 to 1881 he managed an artistic ceramics workshop in Auteuil, near Paris, for the porcelain manufacturer Charles Haviland (1839-1921). Slip decoration was the speciality of the Auteuil workshop, where barbotine decoration was slip-painted using a brush and coloured clays. Marie Bracquemond worked there alongside twenty or so other painters. She notably produced two monumental decors that no longer exist today."}
{"i":80,"title":"Maurice Denis: Illustrating Christian mysticism","raw":"“The Imitation of Christ” was one of the first texts illustrated by Maurice Denis, in which he merged his interest in illustration, “decoration without servitude to the text”, and his Christian faith. The work is a devotional book attributed to the Flemish monk Thomas à Kempis, written in the early 15th century and a bestseller up until the 19th, when it was one of the most widely read books. Maurice Denis discovered it when he was a teenager and had always wanted to illustrate it. After a dozen years of work, he finally found a publisher in the person of Ambroise Vollard. The book, illustrated with woodcuts based on Denis’ drawings, was published in 1903. Almost seventy woodblock artists worked on its creation. The exhibition presents a selection of the some 246 sheets recently acquired by the Musée d’Orsay. It invites visitors to immerse themselves in the work’s genesis and try to understand the artist’s thought processes from initial idea to final image. A tireless experimenter, Denis explored a variety of techniques, including pencil, ink, wash and tracing, to express the religious precepts in drawing. These drawings will be exhibited alongside paintings by Denis and various other of his projects on Christian and spiritual subjects; they will be presented in comparison with pages from the final book, of which the Musée d’Orsay recently acquired an unbound copy, the form in which it could be bought when it was first published. This arrangement will enable us to integrate the drawings into the overall publishing project that brought the Nabi artist and avant-garde publisher together."}
{"i":81,"title":"Échos de l’Invisible [Echoes of the Invisible]","raw":"This display is the result of a unique initiative: Orsay Lab, a call for projects launched in 2025 and targeting young people between 18 and 25 years old. An invitation to the new generation that aimed to come up with original, socially conscious projects focusing on the Museum’s collections and present-day concerns alike. The call for projects was won by Jad Bestautte, a student in Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, whose aim was to raise awareness on mental health and emotional sensitivity among young people by drawing on the evocative capacities of the Musée d’Orsay’s collections. “I came up with this project with the idea that the Museum could become a meeting place where artworks become fulcrums for interacting with others; a venue where mental health issues have a place. Teenagers monitored by Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital’s Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Department visited the Musée d’Orsay over the course of several weeks. We looked at the works together. The repeated visits became opportunities for projection, in which 19th-century perceptions resonated with present-day questions and experiences."}
{"i":82,"title":"Gustave Le Gray: Painter and Photographer","raw":"A painter by training and vocation, Gustave Le Gray (1820-1884) was the epitome of the scholarly artist in the early days of photography in France. He played a key role among 19th-century practitioners, due as much to his accomplishments and the artistic ambitions he nurtured for the new medium as to his influence as a technician, inventor of major improvements, theoretician and teacher at the origin of one of the first photography schools. Le Gray has been represented in the Musée d’Orsay’s collections since its first acquisition of photographs in 1979, and the institution currently conserves one of the most remarkable ensembles of his output. Almost forty years after the first major exhibition in France devoted to Le Gray, held at the Musée d’Orsay in collaboration with the Art Institute of Chicago (1988), and over twenty years after the landmark retrospective held at the Bibliothèque nationale de France (2002), this presentation will be an occasion to rediscover the artist and his multidisciplinary talent. Several recent acquisitions, major works whose existence had been unknown until they appeared on the market, will be put back in the context of their creation and revealed to the public for the first time. This event has been labeled “Bicentennial of Photography 2026-2027” by the Ministry of Culture and is included in its official programming."}
{"i":83,"title":"Édouard Vuillard","raw":"As a prelude to the exhibition Vuillard: Intimate Theaters, presented from March 23 to July 25, 2027, this display brings together several recent acquisitions that entered the collections by donation, spanning painting, pastel, and the decorative arts. This presentation highlights the richness of Vuillard's practice and how the artist explores the concept of the decorative through a wide range of techniques. Among the works on view are two major overdoor panels designed to complete the decorative ensemble Public Gardens, of which five panels are already in the Musée d’Orsay’s collection, as well as a set of pieces from the dinner service created for Jean Schopfer – a unique and experimental work in many respects that enjoyed great critical success."}
{"i":84,"title":"Vertigo: Richard Peduzzi at Orsay","raw":"A major theater and opera set designer and Patrice Chéreau’s longtime collaborator, Richard Peduzzi has spent his life revamping the art of scenography. At the Musée d’Orsay, his monumental models of the Opéra Garnier and its neighborhood have accompanied visitors ever since the museum opened in 1986. In 1986, Richard Peduzzi, well-known for his avant-garde creations for theater and opera, scenographed the Musée d’Orsay’s interior, giving major prominence to 19th-century architecture. Among other things, he designed a display at the end of the Museum’s great nave that highlighted the Opéra Garnier and its neighborhood, which had been radically reshaped by Prefect Haussmann’s renovations. Still today, the models of Charles Garnier’s building and the Opéra neighborhood, which we look down upon from above in a vertiginous spatial setting, are one of the visit’s highlights and are much appreciated by the public. They are among Orsay’s most emblematic exhibits. Forty years later, the institution has looked back on this highly original choice and invited the artist to resume a dialogue between the Museum, its collections and his creations. The exhibition sheds new light on the scenographers’ world, haunted by imaginary architectures. Conveying meaning and emotion alike, they were full-fledged actors in the scenic revolution brought about by their designs in the 1970s and 1980s. His earliest creations with Patrice Chéreau (Richard II and The Massacre at Paris) contain architectural motifs that would continue to feature in all his work: never-ending walls, towers, ruins and derelict sites return like obsessions, nourishing the meaning of the play’s staging. Deployed around the monumental models he created for the Museum, a wide selection of the artist’s works (paintings, drawings, stage set models and sculptures) rekindle the expressive power of the artist’s achievements. Some of them, including the set models for Chéreau’s staging of Alban Berg’s Lulu at the National Opera"}
{"i":85,"title":"Mary Cassatt: Being independent","raw":"In 2026, in order to mark the hundredth anniversary of the artist’s death, the Musée d’Orsay is organizing a major exhibition devoted to Mary Cassatt (1844-1926). In France, this will be a long-awaited event: its national museums have never devoted a major exhibition to Mary Cassatt, an active member and pillar of the impressionist group. Her centenary provides an opportunity to examine the central place occupied by this prominent artist who, through talent and determination, succeed in forging a unique identity in late 19th- and early 20th-century art history, on both sides of the Atlantic. Mary Cassatt described herself as “American, American through and through”, but started off by grounding her art in the pictorial tradition of the old masters, which she studied during her visits to Europe, before becoming an essential figure in the impressionist movement in France, where she lived for no fewer than six decades. “I am independent!” she proclaimed, “I can live alone and I love to work”. Taking a chrono-thematic approach, the exhibition paints a new portrait of the artist, examining her art through the prism of the notion of independence, in which she took great pride and which was her guiding principle throughout her life. Comprising almost 80 paintings, pastels and prints, and covering the whole of the artist’s career, “Mary Cassatt: L'indépendante / Mary Cassatt: Being independent” opens up new perspectives on her work, drawing on unpublished letters and never before exploited sources. Rarely shown works from public and private European collections will be presented, along with paintings and pastels from American collections seldom exhibited outside the United States. A selection of Cassatt’s early works and portraits of her loved ones shows how the artist’s social milieu, travels and knowledge of the art of the past shaped her approach and practice. Making it a point of honor to be independent (originally at her wealthy family’s request), she soon set herself"}
{"i":86,"title":"Jenny Holzer: J’ai vu","raw":"Known as one of the most influential artists of our time, Jenny Holzer places words and ideas at the heart of her thought-provoking practice. For the museum wide activation \"J'ai vu\", conceived for and with the Musée d’Orsay for fall 2026, Holzer offers text fragments from the Musée d’Orsay’s archive and the historical period covered by its collection, disseminated across her signature media: monumental installations, projections onto the historic façade of the former railway station, engravings on exotic stone, and luminous electronic displays. The exhibition at the Musée d’Orsay will adopt diverse forms, beginning with light projections on the museum’s façade along the Seine timed to coincide with the show’s opening in October. Excerpts selected by Holzer from a range of sources, from artist letters found in the museum’s archive to contemporaneous literary and political commentary, will transform the building’s exterior and offer time travel for passersby. Inside the museum, a site-specific LED animated with colorful streams of text will allow visitors to immerse themselves in content drawn from, and responding to, the history represented in the Musée d’Orsay’s collection. The LED echoes the building’s conversion from 19th - century railway station to modern museum: custom programming traversing the space mirrors the bustling visitor circulation and nods to the Gare d’Orsay’s original function. Streaming through an artist-curated presentation of collection works in the domed galleries of History Painting, Naturalism, and Symbolism, the LED will speak with Holzer’s gold, platinum, and palladium-leafed paintings. These metallic redaction paintings bring secrecy to the surface, and will change with the Seine’s light over the course of days. Much of the paintings’ content has been obscured, but vestiges of hard and necessary decisions remain, echoing the history paintings on view in adjacent galleries."}
{"i":87,"title":"Family Histories","raw":"The family was by no means an immutable model and evolved throughout the 19th century in line with the era’s political, social and moral disruptions. Regulated by the Civil Code, upheld by the bourgeoisie and impacted by first-wave feminism and romantic shifts in the notion of the couple, it became an ideal observatory for examining the tensions in modern society. Artists, as much actors in as they were witnesses of these changes, provided sometimes idealized sometimes critical and occasionally deeply ambiguous depictions of them. Based on the Musée d’Orsay’s extensive collections, the exhibition brings together paintings, sculptures, photographs, films, drawings and archives focusing on the many ways of “being a family” in France between 1848 and 1914. From Edgar Degas to Pierre Bonnard, from Victor Hugo to Nadar, from the Lumière brothers to Alice Guy and from Camille Claudel to Rosa Bonheur, these works tell stories of love, filiation, transmission, domination, rivalry and emancipation. The exhibition opens on the inherent links between family and politics, before unfolding in five thematic sections. “Home Sweet Home” explores the house as a place of family embodiment and domestic intimacy, from Degas’, Tissot’s and Bazille’s large-scale portraits of extended families to the destitute homeless families captured by Daumier and Stevens. Rosa Bonheur and the large menagerie she kept in Thomery, as well as the 20th century’s first films portraying emotional alliances between animals and human beings, were already paving the way for alternative models. “Be a mother and keep quiet” focuses on the burden of motherhood and the roles assigned to women. Whether they were mothers or wet nurses, workers or artists, young or in the prime of life, “old maids” or grandmothers, in their flesh and fantasies alike, women experienced pregnancy and breastfeeding, old age and barrenness, adoption, abandonment and the loss of one or more of their children. The ambivalent approach to m"}
{"i":88,"title":"Vuillard: Intimate Theaters","raw":"The innovative, intimist works of the painter Edouard Vuillard (1868-1940), a key figure in the Nabi movement, continue to captivate and intrigue us today. With this first exhibition in France devoted to Vuillard in almost 25 years, the Musée d’Orsay is focusing on a hitherto unexplored subject: the artist’s fascination with the theater, which imbued and stimulated his art for over five decades, from the early 1890s to the late 1930s. Vuillard enjoyed cabarets and café-concerts as much as he delighted in classical tragedies, and was also to be found in the audience at more alternative theaters where symbolist plays at the cutting edge of the avant-garde were performed in the 1890s. A faithful audience member at any and all theaters, Vuillard was also an “actor” in them, closely involved in those progressive circles. Working behind the scenes, he created programs and stage sets for their shows, drawing on this new dramaturgy to provide himself with the motifs, props and intense atmosphere of his own paintings: intimist interiors laid out in the fashion of a stage designer. Very much at home in the ever-renewed circles of actors, theater reviewers and playwrights, Vuillard spent his life painting the portraits of those larger-than-life personalities – including, in the early years of the 20th century, the individuals involved in boulevard theater. He also continued to devote himself to the art of decoration, in which he excelled, carrying out major commissions for the interiors of two great Parisian theaters, on the theme of the theater. These murals, mises-en-abime that epitomize an undying passion for the stage and performance, were the highpoints of an artistic career constantly permeated and radically renewed by this other art form."}
{"i":89,"title":"Cezanne and Us","raw":"The exhibition aims to present an overview of the body of work produced by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906) in terms of his artistic legacy, in the innovative form of a concise, ongoing dialogue. It bears witness to the artist’s incomparable legacy, from the time when, in seclusion in Aix, some people wondered whether he really existed, to the 20th-century “Cezanne Myth”, as founding father of pictorial modernity. Hence, with a strong historiographical focus, while taking care not to neglect the iconographic side of things, the exhibition takes account of the way that Cezanne – and which Cezanne? – was able to be seen and purchased by artists in the 1880s, a period when he no longer exhibited , thanks to “Père” Tanguy and a few collectors, some of whom were artists themselves. It goes on to cover milestones in the artist’s French and then international recognition, through the first monographic exhibitions organized by Ambroise Vollard between 1895 and 1901, the acceptance of two of his works by Musée du Luxembourg thanks to the Caillebotte bequest (1894), followed by the monographic exhibitions at the Autumn Salon and the first major international exhibitions he was included in. These events ensured the artist’s critical and commercial success and raised him to the rank of father of modernity in the eyes of the European avant-garde movements of the 1910s and the great international collectors alike."}
{"i":90,"title":"What a Wonderful World: Masterpieces from the Musée d'Orsay","raw":"During the second half of the 19th century, artists – painters, sculptors, decorators and photographers – proved to be particularly sensitive to the changes their world was undergoing. This being so, they sought to depict modern life in their works, and the ongoing evolution of mores, which were redefining artistic codes. The daily lives of their contemporaries were being transformed by far-reaching changes, with the industrial revolution proceeding at an unprecedented pace compared with the previous century. The railway, which had made its appearance some twenty years earlier, developed at lightning speed, serving French cities for the first time. The rise of large urban communities and the metamorphoses of major capitals changed the landscape once and for all. As France’s capital city, Paris was remodeled at Napoleon III’s instigation and orchestrated in accordance with Baron Haussmann’s plans. In this context, a bourgeois middle class emerged with a range of new interests to indulge, including horseraces at the hippodromes located at the city gates, sea bathing and stays in houses in the country. This new “present time” was an inexhaustible source of inspiration for artists, whether they belonged to the most academic or most innovative movements. The impressionists, who wanted to provide fresh visions of all these fragments of reality, took an active part in this renewal. The daily life of the time became a central theme for a whole generation of artists. With new scenes of interiors bathed in artificial lighting, subjects previously absent from painting made their appearance: the pleasures and joys provided by this modern world. Artists came up with new modes of expression enabling them to better capture the present time and tradition."}
{"i":91,"title":"Decorating the Wall","raw":"Presented in the Cabinet of Architecture, “Decorating the Wall” explores the rise of decorative arts in the 19th century, when wallpaper, fabrics and murals transformed interior design and opened up a new field of expression to artists. Spurred by the mechanization of manufacturing processes over the course of the 19th century, decoration invited itself into interiors far and wide. Wallpapers, stencil paintings and furnishing fabrics democratized embellishment of the living environment. Numerous manufactories sprang up, producing an abundance of motifs that kept expedient pace with changing tastes. Promoting a comprehensive approach to decoration, many artists availed themselves of the possibilities offered by these techniques that brought art into the realm of industry."}
{"i":92,"title":"Youssef Nabil: To dream again","raw":"Since the 1990s, the Franco-Egyptian photographer and videographer Youssef Nabil (born 1972) has been producing a body of work with a strong visual identity, to which the Musée d'Orsay has made a decisive contribution. His first visit to France and discovery of the Museum's collections in 1992 is still a source of inspiration that has imbued his work for more than thirty years, as evidenced by the self-portrait The Dream (2021), a direct descendant of Puvis de Chavannes' Le Rêve. With this exhibition, Youssef Nabil is the first contemporary artist in the Orientalist galleries, offering an opportunity to put his works in perspective with those that have influenced him within this same space, which, along with symbolism, constitute the heart of their aesthetic rapprochement. The black and white silver prints, enhanced by Youssef Nabil's use of an old hand-coloring technique, evoke the glorious, fantasized Egypt of his childhood – the artist's birth country – and conjure up velvety-toned visual ambiences. His body of work, which borrows from the registers of dream and nostalgia, seeks to escape from questions of identity alone in order to embody an idealized, fantasized Mediterranean world without borders. In the artist's eyes, Egypt is the setting for an accepted, sensual orientalism, with images that make fresh use of its codes: warm, bright colors bathing in a tranquil atmosphere composed of desires and dreams, depicting a free Orient, without prohibition or censure. In addition to this orientalism, the aesthetics of his uncluttered settings, summoning up blues and whites and uniting them to produce effects of transparency, reflect the artist's symbolist influences. The themes of exile, rebirth and dream are omnipresent in his work. The back postures in his faceless self-portraits are tinged with melancholy and have an air of mystery about them. The exhibition title To \"Dream Again (De rêver encore)\" highlights the central role of dreams in Youssef Nabil's work, as"}
{"i":93,"title":"Sculpture and Ceramics around 1900","raw":"In the context of the exhibitions devoted to acquisitions held in celebration of the Musée d'Orsay’s 40th birthday, a new selection highlights works emblematic of the artistic renewal of the 1890s. During those years, sculptors and ceramists, fascinated by the possibilities provided by faïence, porcelain and sandstone, pushed the boundaries of their art. In the 1890s, the renewal of sculpture aligned with practitioners’ interest in creating new forms of ceramics and glassware. In turn, the effects of materials and colors discovered by ceramists won over sculptors, who were giving ever greater thought to their works’ polychromy. Faïence, porcelain and sandstone – these three materials produced from clayey soils were mediums for original creations. Influenced by Japanese stoneware, Chinese monochrome porcelains, iridescent Islamic ceramics and European vernacular pottery traditions, sculptors and ceramists gave expression to a variety of sensibilities and called the utilitarian limits of these techniques into question. The theme of the mask has been a genre in its own right since the 1860s. The Musée d’Orsay’s collection is a benchmark in this field and has recently been enriched with two striking examples testifying to the diversity of their creators’ approaches."}
{"i":94,"title":"The cedar, the majestic green crown of Mediterranean mountain tops","raw":"In its Cabinet of Graphic Art, the Musée d'Orsay is exhibiting a selection of 19th-century drawings inspired by the Mediterranean’s majestic cedars. Through works by Guillaumet, Lévy-Dhurmer and Belly, acquaint yourself with the beauty of these emblematic trees. The cedar forests so dear to the poets Alphonse de Lamartine and Stéphane Mallarmé also inspired the 19th century’s graphic artists. Conical when it is young, the cedar tree takes a hundred years for it to attain the emblematic shape we know it by. Its “gigantic stages” take shape among the Northern Algerian desert’s fig trees, flowering hawthorns and white lilies that Gustave Guillaumet depicted in ink, charcoal and pastel on tracing paper and sheets of violet-, blue- and grey-tinted paper. Lucien Lévy-Dhurmer used blue crayons to sketch the Atlas cedars’ slender outlines, while Léon Belly filled the pages of his sketchbooks with them during his journey from the Mediterranean to the Dead Sea."}
{"i":95,"title":"Renoir and Love: A Joyful modernity (1865-1885)","raw":"A major figure in impressionism, Pierre Auguste Renoir, like Manet, Degas, Monet and Caillebotte, is regarded as one of the 19th century’s great painters of modern life. Between the mid-1860s and the 1880s, he developed a light, fluid manner of painting, bursting with light and color, along with new subjects focusing on relationships between men and women. Renoir’s joyful, discreet and tender vision, devoid of any hint of sentimentality, ribaldry or drama, distinguishes him from the other painters of his day. The artist locates the interactions he depicts in his paintings in the public space, the new, modern social and natural settings – theaters, restaurants, guinguettes, boulevards and gardens – frequented by various social classes. Theses popular “scenes” of modern love encouraged greater freedom of morals and the blossoming of “illicit” loves, in an era when bourgeois conventions and religious morality still governed romantic and sexual relationships. Although his depictions were still marked by traditional gender stereotypes, Renoir revived the memory of Watteau’s, Boucher’s and Fragonard’s “fêtes galantes” [courtship parties] in order to re-enchant relationships between men and women and, implicitly, examine the question of male desire and female consent. But Renoir did not stick to seduction games. His couples are often part of a vast network of social and emotional interactions (friends, parents, children, etc.). Love, understood as a fundamental force binding human beings to each other and to nature, guided his inspiration. According to him, “a picture should be a pleasant thing, joyful and pretty”. His eye and his brush connected actions, looks, bodies and settings in compositions that are worlds in themselves. During this decisive period, he made several attempts at large-format paintings, with scenes of modern conviviality (including Mother Anthony’s Cabaret, Dance at the Moulin de la Galette and Luncheon of the Boating Party), which were so many manifes"}
{"i":96,"title":"Renoir Drawings","raw":"This is the first exhibition to be dedicated to Renoir’s drawings, and highlights the importance of graphic techniques in his artistic development. It also reveals the close relationship between his paintings and his drawings, in particular from the 1880s onwards when he began to move away from Impressionism. Although Renoir’s paintings remain icons of impressionism, until now his works on paper (drawings, watercolors, pastels, etc.) have not received the same attention. It is true that the artist, who is recognized above all as a very great painter and colorist, long suffered from a reputation as a poor draftsman. It is also true that his corpus of graphic works is small (Renoir doubtless destroyed many of his drawings) and heterogeneous, including sketches, studies for painted compositions, large-scale tracings, plein air watercolor “notations”, actual portraits in pastel, signed, exhibited and sold to art lovers, and drafts for prints and illustrations. Yet drawing played a decisive role in Renoir’s artistic development, from his first exercises as a student in the 1850s and 1860s to his highly contemporary experiments in the 1910s. This can be seen in works such as Les Baigneuses. Essai de peinture décorative [The Bathers, decorative painting experiment] and Maternité, where he produced numerous studies in order to achieve the perfect form. “[Renoir] is a first-rate draughtsman; it would be interesting to show the public all of these preparatory studies for a single painting, as they generally imagine that the Impressionists work in a most nonchalant fashion.” (Berthe Morisot)"}
{"i":97,"title":"Clair Obscur: Expedition 33","raw":"For one week - later extended by three -, the Musée d’Orsay is thinking big to showcase the visual world of the video game \"Clair Obscur: Expedition 33\". Thanks to an innovative display, the central aisle of the main gallery is adorned with in-game screenshots and concept art (preliminary sketches), some of which have never been seen before. All those images share deep aesthetic connections with the museum’s collections. Painting is a constant presence throughout the story of Clair Obscur: Expedition 33. It establishes the antagonist’s role from the very beginning of the plot and continues to add depth to the narrative right up to its conclusion. This exhibition aims to shed light on a few—sometimes hidden—references and trans-historical echoes: from the glistening cobblestones of Gustave Caillebotte’s Rue de Paris, temps de pluie, echoed by the reflections of textures on the streets of Lumière’s imagined city, all the way to Victor Navlet’s A bird's-eye view of Paris, taken from the Observatory in a hot-air balloon, rendered from Esquie’s aerial perspective. The architecture of the Orsay and Monoco train stations echoes one another, while iconic public monuments and street furniture mirror each other between Paris and Lumière. The creative team behind Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 drew inspiration from the iconography found in the Musée d’Orsay’s collections, reimagining its iconic symbols: a fractured Eiffel Tower and Arc de Triomphe, the Wallace Fountains transformed into statues, and Carpeaux’s The Four Parts of the World supporting the celestial sphere, shattered into pieces... For a new audience, the name “Renoir” now also evokes the patriarch of the Dessendre family. The Musée d’Orsay invites visitors to rediscover how, for Auguste Renoir, love was also the driving force behind many of his compositions, the human bond that brings to life his vibrant, colorful canvases, where anything is possible… Through the lens of the relationship between Renoir and Aline, Cl"}
{"i":98,"title":"Impressionist fans: An exceptional gift from the Kan family","raw":"For its 40th anniversary, the Musée d’Orsay is unveiling in its entirety the gift of 17 artists' fans. The Kan collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist fans has been formed over the last twenty years and is the largest ever assembled. This gift considerably expands the Musée d’Orsay’s collection of fans, so far limited to a few examples. Artists became particularly interested in this support from the middle of the 1850s, under the influence of Japonism. Enthusiasm reached its peak in 1879 during the 4th Impressionist exhibition, in which Degas wished to devote an entire room to fans. The Impressionists liked their curved shape and unusual format, so different to the rectangular format of European painting, and also identified a potential to expand their clientele. If Degas experimented the most, Pissarro was the artist who used this new support most frequently. Interest slowed from 1880, but fans had contributed to the aesthetic and social imaginary of the 19th century. The Post-Impressionists also explored that format and support, as well as the Symbolists, as seen in the fans by Gauguin or de Feure in the Kan collection."}
{"i":99,"title":"Monet: A question of landscape","raw":"To mark the centenary of the death of Claude Monet (1840-1926), the Musée d’Orsay is joining forces with the Artizon Museum and the Nikkei in Tokyo to present an exceptional exhibition titled “Monet. Le paysage en question / Monet. A question of landscape”. This major international event brings together over a hundred of the artist’s and his contemporaries’ masterpieces, almost fifty of which will be lent by the Musée d’Orsay for an unprecedented visit to Japan. It marks the official launch of commemorations devoted to the centenary of Monet’s death, which will take place in France and across the world in 2026. The exhibition provides an exploration of Monet’s body of work in terms of nature and landscape. Nature is omnipresent, nourishing his work as a landscape painter, structuring his artistic approach and guiding his life. From the 1850s to his death, Monet spent his time tirelessly depicting forests and trees, flowers and cliffs, rivers, seas, skies and clouds, composing almost 1,800 landscapes in the course of over seventy years of continuous creation. His travels – Paris region, Normandy, the South, Brittany, England, the Netherlands and Norway – and the gardens he laid out in Argenteuil, Vétheuil and finally in Giverny became so many reinvented landscapes; according to Proust, the garden and water lily ponds are works “painted directly from nature”. Hence, landscape seems to have been a favored means of expression, a real laboratory in which Monet redefines our relationship with art and the world. The exhibition takes a closer look at what these landscapes reveal in an attempt to shed light on Monet’s “nature” in the age of industrialization. A “love of nature” was at the origin of his vocation. He was tireless in his assertion of it and it became a way of seeing, feeling and making an evolving truth perceptible while observing the increasing effects of industrialization. In Argenteuil, in the 1870s, nature was already no longer intact: the Anthropocene was"}
{"i":100,"title":"A Total Art: Drawings from the Vienna Secession","raw":"Organized around the recent acquisition of a drawing by Josef Hoffmann, “A Total Art” is a Focus on the Musée d'Orsay’s collections of drawings by Vienna Secession artists. Through the selection on display, discover the principles underlying an innovative form of architecture emblematic of Viennese Modernism. In 2023, the Museum’s architecture collections were complemented by a rare drawing by Joseph Hoffmann, making a further addition to the forty-two works by pupils of Otto Wagner – Emil Hoppe, Marcel Kammerer and Otto Schönthal – acquired in 1997. Created the same year the Stoclet Palace in Brussels was completed, this extraordinarily powerful graphic project testifies to the research carried out by the Austrian master at the height of his career. Around this acquisition, which is on show for the first time, the Focus returns to the notion of total art, which was a central concern of Viennese Modernism’s architects."}
{"i":101,"title":"Northern Light: Scandinavian and Dutch Drawings from the Musée d’Orsay","raw":"“Northern Light” presents a selection of Scandinavian and Dutch drawings from the Musée d'Orsay’s collections, highlighting Northern Europe’s artistic wealth. Symbolist landscapes and domestic scenes reveal the diversity of Northern European art in the 19th century. This wall display underscores the Museum’s interest in enlarging its collection of works by foreign artists. Recent acquisitions of works by Swedish and Dutch artists hang side by side with items that, in some cases, have been in national collections for over a century. Symbolist Nordic landscapes, long absent from the Museum’s collections of drawings, counterbalance Carl Larsson’s and Peder Severin’s peaceful domestic scenes, and artists such as Carl Forsberg and Philippe Smit, who were largely unknown in their lifetimes, find their rightful place alongside these great names."}
{"i":102,"title":"Myra Albert Wiggins and her time. Around a recent donation of photographs","raw":"Myra Albert Wiggins, a little known figure of the Photo-Secession, was one of the leading women Art photographers in the turn-of-the-century United States. Contextualizing the group of 10 prints donated to the musée d'Orsay in 2023, this display celebrates the entry into the national collections of an artist who is rarely seen and collected outside of institutions in the Northwestern United States. At the turn of the 20th century, the photographer Myra Albert Wiggins was one of the leading representatives of pictorialism – the first artistic movement in the history of the medium – in the United States. Originally from Salem, Oregon, she moved to New York in the early 1890s, where she studied painting at the Art Students League while also becoming a member of the city’s Camera Club and Society of Amateur Photographers. Before she returned to her native region, Wiggins formed a relationship of mutual respect with Alfred Stieglitz, who invited her to join the Photo-Secession group ten years later, in 1903. Although in the meantime her distance from the East Coast did not prevent her from gaining recognition in a number of exhibitions, this integration into the American pictorialist elite confirmed her national and international stature. On the other hand, the geographical isolation caused by her move to Washington State in 1907 proved detrimental to her photographic inspiration. From the beginning of the following decade, painting absorbed most of her creativity and commitment, culminating in 1930 with the founding of the association of Women Painters of Washington. Originating from the artist’s personal collection, the set of photographs donated in 2023 by David F. Martin and Dominic A. Zambito is particularly representative of Wiggins’ oeuvre. The ten prints acquired are emblematic of the originality of her approach to the four themes for which she showed a clear preference: portraits of women and children, landscapes and outdoor figure studies, still lifes, and genr"}
{"i":103,"title":"A new dation at the Musée d’Orsay: Caillebotte’s Portrait de l’artiste au chevalet","raw":"The Musée d’Orsay is celebrating its 40th birthday with a rotation of major new acquisitions that reflect the diversity of its collections. The exceptional dation of the Portrait de l’artiste by Gustave Caillebotte (1848-1894), which the Museum has just received, opens the series, which will continue throughout 2026. It’s Gustave Caillebotte’s most important self-portrait. It was painted and exhibited in 1879, when the 31-year-old artist was on the way to becoming a major figure in the impressionist movement. He depicts himself at work in his studio, observing himself in a mirror and painting the portrait we’re looking at. His studio was also a place for socializing and presenting his personal collection of paintings. The artist supported his impressionist friends by purchasing their works, which he went on to bequeath to the State at his death. Renoir’s Bal du moulin de la Galette [Dance at the Moulin de la Galette] is hanging on the wall. This self-portrait dialogues with another of Caillebotte’s self-portraits from the Musée d’Orsay’s collections, painted a few months before the artist’s untimely death at the age of 45. The Musée d’Orsay has seen a numerous remarkable additions to its collection of Caillebotte’s works since 2019, with Marie-Jeanne Daurelle’s bequest, three dations and the purchase of a national treasure. The Musée d’Orsay currently conserves 16 of the artist’s works."}
{"i":104,"title":"Gabrielle Hébert: Amour fou at the Villa Medici","raw":"Designed in partnership with the Musée Départemental Ernest Hébert in La Tronche (Isère), where it will be hosted in spring 2026, the exhibition will also be presented at the French Academy in Rome – Villa Medici in autumn 2026, where the exhibition’s curator Marie Robert spent a year in the context of a Villa Medici/ Musée d’Orsay cross-residency. The exhibition Who’s Afraid of Women Photographers? (1839-1945) presented at the Musée d’Orsay and the Musée de l’Orangerie in 2015 was a milestone for recognition of women artists in France. One of the many photographers featured was Gabrielle Hébert (1853, Dresden, Germany - 1934, La Tronche, France). Born Gabrielle von Uckermann, she was an amateur painter before marrying Ernest Hébert in 1880, an academic artist twice appointed Director of the French Academy in Rome. She went on to develop an intensive, extremely prolific photography practice, begun at Villa Medici in 1888 and ending twenty years later in La Tronche (near Grenoble) following the death of the man she had idolised, her elder by almost forty years, and whose place in history she largely ensured by supporting the creation of two monographic museums. In the late 19th century, between France and Italy, like many artists and writers (including Henri Rivière, Pierre Bonnard, Maurice Denis and Émile Zola) who equipped themselves with a camera to record their and their families’ daily lives, Gabrielle Hébert pursued a private, sentimental photography practice, helped along by the technical and aesthetic revolution brought about by the invention of snapshot photography. At Villa Medici, as the wife of its director, she organised receptions and received elite visitors. She was not long in escaping her assigned duties, however, and acquired a camera. She took a few lessons with a Roman professional and, along with a resident of her own age, set up a darkroom to develop and print her negatives and retouch the results. It was the beginning of an extremely voluminous"}
{"i":105,"title":"Bridget Riley: Point de départ","raw":"Bridget Riley, born in London in 1931, saw her career transformed by an encounter with the work of post-impressionist master Georges Seurat. At the Musée d'Orsay, an exhibition of the great British painter's hypnotic works highlights this legacy. For more than sixty-five years, the British contemporary painter Bridget Riley has produced vibrant visual artworks that disrupt our perception thanks to the precise placement of colours, lines and tones, which engage the retina and create an illusion of movement. The exhibition “Bridget Riley: point de départ” explores how Bridget Riley’s study of Georges Seurat’s work served as a defining moment in the development of her artistic process. Acting both as a beginning and as a deviation, the “starting point” refers to the moment in 1959, when Riley copied Seurat’s Bridge at Courbevoie from a reproduction in a book presented here. This act taught her how to place colours next to each other to create vibration in her work through optical effects, a principle that has continued to inform her practice right up to the present day. Recognised as one of the major artists of our time, often associated with the “op art” (optical art) movement, this recontextualisation of her work through the prism of the tribute paid to Seurat, presents her primarily as a vibrant Post-Impressionist painter of our age."}
{"i":106,"title":"Building and Decorating the Opera House","raw":"In 2025, Charles Garnier’s New Opera House is celebrating its 150th birthday. Inaugurated in 1875, this emblem of the Second Empire, completed under the Third Republic, testifies to the genius of Garnier, who had each stage of its construction immortalized by the photographers Delmaet and Durandelle. 2025 marks the 150th anniversary of the inauguration of Charles Garnier’s New Opera House on January 5, 1875. This major Second Empire edifice was completed under the Third Republic following almost fifteen years of work. Wishing to have the implementation of his first major project fully documented, the brilliant young architect Charles Garnier commissioned the photographers Delmaet and Durandelle to take several series of photos illustrating the progress of the structural work as well as the creation of the many sculpted features composing the Opera House’s rich decoration."}
{"i":107,"title":"Sargent: Dazzling Paris","raw":"John Singer Sargent (Florence, 1856 – London, 1925), along with James McNeill Whistler, was the most famous American artist of his generation and certainly one of the greatest painters of the 19th and early 20th century. Revered in the United States (his Portrait of Madame X is regarded as the Mona Lisa of the American art collection conserved by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York), he is also famous in the United Kingdom, where he spent most of his career. In France, however, his name and work remain largely unknown, a situation that the exhibition at the Musée d'Orsay in fall 2025 hopes to change. No monographic exhibition has previously been devoted to John Singer Sargent in France. Yet it was in France that the young painter received his training, developing his style and network of artists. It was there that he also enjoyed his first successes and created a number of his masterpieces, including Dr Pozzi at HomeHome (1881, Hammer Museum, Los Angeles) and The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit (1882, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston). Designed in partnership with the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the exhibition \"Sargent. Dazzling Paris\" aims to introduce the painter to a wide audience. The exhibition brings together over 90 of John Singer Sargent’s works, including some that have never been exhibited in France. It traces the meteoric rise of the young artist, who arrived in Paris in 1874, when he was eighteen years old, to study with Carolus-Duran. The exhibition covers his career up to the mid-1880s, when he moved to London after the scandal caused by his portrait of Madame Gautreau (Madame X) at the Salon. During that decade, Sargent forged his style and personality alike in the crucible of Paris’ head-spinning art scene, marked by the proliferation of exhibitions, development of naturalism and impressionism, and Paris’ ascendancy as art capital of the world. The young American painter found no lack of support there from other expatriates and also mad"}
{"i":108,"title":"Paul Troubetzkoy: Sculptor (1866 -1938)","raw":"The exhibition traces the life of this artist, born in Italy and a Parisian by adoption, who also had a brilliant career in the United States. A highly talented portraitist, he was much sought-after by a cosmopolitan elite, celebrities, the Parisian smart set and the first American film stars. His life was marked by decisive encounters and friendships with men of letters, such as Tolstoy in Russia and George Bernard Shaw in Paris, with whom he shared a vegetarian lifestyle, somewhat unusual for the era. In addition to the portraits that made his name, the exhibition also highlights his animal sculptures along with his work on behalf of animal rights, of which he was an ardent advocate well ahead of his time. Developed in partnership with the Museo del Paesaggio in Verbania, the exhibition provides an opportunity to present a part of Troubetzkoy’s studio collection, which was bequeathed to the Italian museum after his death. It is an invitation to look at his practice and very recognisable style with fresh eyes. The way in which Troubetzkoy worked on his models, in energetic little touches that catch the light and make it vibrate on his bronze casts’ surfaces, raises the question of impressionism in sculpture. As visitors walk through the exhibition, they will discover a sensitive, modern artist who renders the fluidity of bodies, the energy of movement, and the strength of characters with remarkable subtlety. His work, which spans the late 19th and early 20th centuries, creates a vivid picture of the Belle Époque. A catalogue featuring sumptuous illustrations has been published to mark the occasion. Although Paris enabled Troubetzkoy to launch his career at international level, Milan, where he settled in 1884 at the age of 18, was the city that enabled him to discover himself, train and define himself as an artist free of all academic constraints. There, he got to know the main actors in the Scapigliatura literary and artistic movement, the painters Ranzoni and Crem"}
{"i":109,"title":"Drawing with Raphael: The Decoration of the Garnier Opera House’s Foyer","raw":"For the Paris Opera House, Charles Garnier wanted decoration in perfect harmony with its architecture. He called on artists from the Paris Beaux-Arts and Villa Medici, who rose to the occasion by drawing inspiration from the Italian master Raphael. As its designer, Charles Garnier was closely involved in the drafting of an interior decoration program for the Opera House that would be in symbiosis with his architectural project. He entrusted its creation to the Beaux-Arts’ and Villa Medici’s fellow students, Jules Delaunay, Charles Baudry and Félix Barrias. The delicacy of their black chalk sketches and studies bequeathed to the national collections, as well as the preparation of the paper they used, evidences an admiring debt of gratitude to the great master who decorated the Palazzo Farnese and the Vatican."}
{"i":110,"title":"Architecture and its Decoration: Urban Finery","raw":"Architecture as a medium for national expression: from palaces to urban mansions, 19th-century decoration reflects history and celebrates grandeur. At the turn of the century, its initial vocation stepped aside to give way to freer forms of embellishment. In the 19th century, decoration of buildings was a means of conveying images of history and messages on the nation’s vitality by reaching a wide audience All forms of architecture were involved: regal edifices such as the Louvre, banks, commercial buildings and urban mansions where architects competed to created sophisticated interiors. With the advent of rationalism and Art Nouveau, such decorations no longer aimed to establish links with history and either became picturesque or naturalistic."}
{"i":111,"title":"The Creators and the Dreyfus Affair","raw":"Through a wall display, a film program and an itinerary in the collections, the Musée d’Orsay explores artists’ reactions to the Dreyfus affair and the rise of anti-Semitism in France in the late 19th century. Editorial cartoons, courtroom sketches and films of the era bear witness to the commitments, fights and tensions that marked this major event in republican history. The display shows two facets of Hermann-Paul’s graphic output as an artist committed to the Dreyfusard ranks: satirical drawings for the press and courtroom sketched covering the Zola trial’s hearings and then Dreyfus’ retrial in Rennes (Room 41). The film program focuses on the key role played by Lucie Dreyfus, the captain’s “heroic and devoted wife”, who supported him through his ordeals and exposed the truth, with three extracts from films made in France between 1899 and 1908 (Room 47). Finally, an itinerary through the collections examines the stances of and roles played by various creators and figures on the period’s art scene."}
{"i":112,"title":"Destination musée d'Orsay","raw":"Cette exposition est le fruit d’un partenariat d’éducation artistique et culturelle mené en 2024-2025 avec dix classes de l’académie de Limoges. Elle présente 47 affiches réalisées par des élèves de la 4e à la terminale scolarisés dans des collèges et lycées d’enseignement général ou professionnel des départements de Haute-Vienne, de Creuse et de Corrèze. Avant d’engager en classe un travail de création d’une affiche artistique sur le thème « Destination musée d’Orsay », ces élèves ont participé à une Classe Culture de trois jours au musée d’Orsay entre janvier et mars 2025. Ce nouveau dispositif, entièrement pris en charge par le musée, leur a permis de découvrir les collections du musée d’Orsay avec un conférencier, de participer à des ateliers de pratique artistique, de rencontrer les graphistes du musée, et de bénéficier d’une présentation à distance de l’exposition « L’art est dans la rue » sur l’art de l’affiche. Le thème conducteur des visites que les élèves ont suivies dans les collections du musée est celui de l’essor du voyage d’agrément au XIXème siècle permis par le développement du transport ferroviaire mais aussi de la navigation. Le voyage transforme progressivement les modes de vie, les mentalités, les manières de voir le monde et de le représenter. De la forêt de Fontainebleau aux plages de Trouville, de Belle-Ile en mer à Tahiti, de la vallée de Crozant au golfe de Saint-Tropez, les artistes cultivent alors le goût du public pour des paysages d’ici et d’ailleurs. Inspirés par ce sujet du voyage, les élèves ont travaillé à créer des affiches artistiques qui s’adressent à des jeunes de leur âge et leur donnent envie d’aller visiter le musée d’Orsay. Il ressort de la sélection présentée que la gare d’Orsay, réhabilitée en musée, a conquis les élèves dès leur arrivée. Leurs affiches prennent souvent la nef pour motif principal, revisité. Chacun a fait son voyage personnel porté par la diversité des artistes, des œuvres et des techniques rencontrés. Il"}
{"i":113,"title":"The Construction of the Suez Canal: Photographs by Louis Robert Cuvier","raw":"The Musée d'Orsay is exhibiting a rare album of photographs taken by Louis Robert Cuvier in 1866 and 1867, a precious report on the extreme project of building the Suez Canal. This set is a revealing example of how photography, a medium typical of the industrial age, was very early used for technological, financial, commercial and diplomatic issues. Carried out between 1859 and 1869 under the direction of the Frenchman Ferdinand de Lesseps, the construction of a canal linking the Mediterranean to the Red Sea through the isthmus of Suez was one of the most important civil engineering achievements of the 19th-century. 1863 marked a turning point in the management of this project, located in the middle of the desert, with the abandonment of forced labour by Egyptian peasants giving way to a mechanisation effort that was unprecedented in the field of public works at the time. That same year, Louis Robert Cuvier was among the French officials recruited as general foremen by the Compagnie Universelle du Canal Maritime de Suez. In 1866, he was a photographer on the camp installed on the camp on the rocky threshold of El Guisr, the highest point halfway along the route of the canal. From this strategic position, Cuvier made several expeditions that took him as far north as Port-Saïd and as far south as Suez Harbour. His photographs, often dated the day they were taken, represent some of the earliest reportages on the canal. As early as 1867, two years before the opening of the canal, some of them were gathered in the Album de l’Isthme de Suez, a copy of which is kept at the Musée d’Orsay"}
{"i":114,"title":"Christian Krohg (1852-1925): The People of the North","raw":"The Musée d'Orsay's exhibition devoted to Norwegian artist Christian Krohg is the artist's first-ever retrospective outside Scandinavia, following several exhibitions in Oslo and Lillehammer in 2012, and Copenhagen in 2014. By highlighting Krohg's naturalistic and committed works, the museum offers a new perspective on Norwegian art of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Through a comprehensive panorama of Krohg’s artistic career, the exhibition aims to highlight his pictorial modernity and humanist commitment. A true bohemian and ardent defender of the political and social causes of his day, Krohg, who was also a writer and journalist, depicted the Scandinavian people’s condition with profound empathy: the world of work, poverty, and the injustices suffered by women. The exhibition’s itinerary highlights Krohg’s pictorial connections with the French artists he got to know during his stays in Paris - including Gustave Courbet, Edouard Manet and the impressionists. In his series of sailors, which he continued to add to throughout his life, as in his genre scenes and portraits, Krohg sought to give his works a feeling of immediacy by using unbalanced compositions, audacious framings and dynamic postures. His motto, “It’s all a question of framing”, was the basis for artistic research of unflinching modernity. A member of the provocative bohemian scene in Kristiania (as Oslo was then called), Krohg caused controversy and scandal among the bourgeoisie and artistic elites. The exhibition also includes portraits that the artist painted of members of that libertarian bohemian milieu, those young artists, writers and intellectuals who got together in the capital’s cafes and vehemently challenged the prevailing social structure. In 1886, Krohg published his novel &lt;em&gt;Albertine&lt;/em&gt;, the story of a poor seamstress who becomes a prostitute after being raped – a novel that the police immediately confiscated on the grounds that it offended public morals. Despite"}
{"i":115,"title":"Lucas Arruda: Qu'importe le paysage","raw":"The exhibition \"Lucas Arruda. Qu’importe le paysage\" at the Musée d’Orsay is the first monographic exhibition at a French museum to be devoted to this emblematic figure on Brazil’s contemporary art scene. A true master of pictorial gesture, he has developed his work around light, consistently depicting landscapes and taking a rigorous approach that leads him from figuration to abstraction. For more than fifteen years now, the artist has been producing a serial body of work composed of small-format paintings he calls Deserto-Modelo (Models of Desert), a term borrowed from the Brazilian poet João Cabral de Melo Neto. These “models of desert” – meaning imaginary landscapes, inner visions painted from memory in his studio – are never created “sur le motif” or based on photographs, but are always mnemonic reconstructions close to abstraction. Like the impressionists, however, the question of light and discernable projection of a form of introspection is particularly perceptible in them. As the artist describes it, “Light is at the center of my work. It is movement. It is light that guides my painting, which creates intensity and finishes by creating spaces that are neither abstract nor figurative.” Although small in size, Lucas Arruda’s paintings are imbued with dramatic tension, meaning that each brushstroke is decisive, paradoxically monumental given the scale of the canvas. The inspiration for this invitation to Lucas Arruda comes from the simple, spontaneous sensation so widely shared by observers of his canvases: they are familiar to us, whether in painting or in mind. Those panoramic motifs – horizon lines, edges of dense jungles and cloudy skies – border on universality as it is hard to identify the places and periods depicted. This long lineage, which would include Jean-Baptiste Camille Corot’s pictorial work and the Barbizon school, Gustave Courbet’s tormented seascapes and Eugène Boudin’s ponds, not of course forgetting the impressionists Claude Monet and Paul"}
{"i":116,"title":"“100 Works that Tell the Climate Story” itinerary","raw":"With the “100 Works that Tell the Climate Story” operation, the Musée d’Orsay invites you to take painters, sculptors and naturalists as your guides and rediscover these masterpieces from a new perspective. Housed in a train station where only electric trains arrived and departed in the 1900s, by its very nature the Musée d’Orsay is one of the venues that embody the history of modernity. The period covered by its collections (1848-1914) isn’t only marked by the rise of transport, but more generally by major technological acceleration, supported by massive use of coal and then of gas and oil. Artists were witnesses to these changes, revealing the modernization of the world, its rapid urbanization, as well as of the richness of its landscapes and its fauna and flora, whose fragility we can see all too well today. As you make your way through the rooms, as in any of the thirty or more museums across Metropolitan France, it’s up to you to spot the first clues to an ecological and climatic bifurcation whose effects on our environment are now unambiguously perceptible."}
{"i":117,"title":"Aperitif and Showmanship","raw":"Leonetto Cappiello had a sense of showmanship and literally showed his subjects. The mockups for his advertising and art posters conserved at the Musée d’Orsay are in pastels. Making use of this vibrant medium and with remarkable visual restraint, the artist created sinuous, slender dancing figures with rippling hair, sporting fashion accessories with undulating feathers. In these simple sketches, whether caricature or portrait, a whole world of creation takes shape. Women of fashion, playwrights, composers, actors declaiming, musicians rehearsing, audiences and celebrities put on a real show for us."}
{"i":118,"title":"Art is in the Street","raw":"Through an exceptional collection of nearly 230 works, \"L'art est dans la rue\" explores the spectacular rise of the illustrated poster in Paris during the second half of the 19th century. Organized in partnership with the Bibliothèque nationale de France, the exhibition is the first of its kind on this scale. In fact, no major event in Paris has ever been devoted to this social phenomenon, bringing together so many outstanding works by the \"Masters of the Poster\". Bonnard, Chéret, Grasset, Mucha, Steinlen, Toulouse-Lautrec... Conceived as an immersion into the visual universe of the 19th century city, the exhibition traces the golden age of the artistic poster, analyzing the social and cultural changes that favored its development, in dialogue with a unique collection of posters, paintings, photographs, costumes, sculptures and decorative objects that evoke the exuberant world of the street at the turn of the century. Paintings, drawings, prints and photographs all depict the proliferation of images that took over the smallest bit of empty space: walls and palisades of course, but newsstands, Morris columns, urinals and the metro as well, and even human beings, who turned themselves into sandwich men. Such supports constituted the exhibition walls of a new visual world that sought to catch the eye of passers-by. Transformed by imposing Haussmannian architectural works, cleaned up and well equipped, the “modern” street was also one of the key areas for political expression and social demands. Dangerous for the powers that be, this haven of advertising was, in the art critic Roger Marx’s words, “the teeming, ever bustling street, where universal suffrage is discussed and pronounced\" (Masters of the Poster, 1895). In social, cultural and artistic fields alike, the street was a living environment and exhibition venue all in one, as well as a subject for depiction. The posters of the 1880s to 1900s carry within them the fantasies and realities of an era. The result of te"}
{"i":119,"title":"Gare d’Orsay in spring 1945: Scene of the return of the rapatriates","raw":"In April 1945, Gare d’Orsay train station became an arrival point for prisoners, deportees and workers requisitioned by the STO (Compulsory Labor Service) repatriated from Germany after the Second World War. Welcomed by volunteers and civil servants, they regained their administrative identities there before returning to their homes. Through a selection of previously unpublished documents, an exhibition sheds light on this significant episode, revealing personal stories at the heart of the nation’s history. From April 1945 onwards, former prisoners of war, political deportees from concentration and extermination camps and workers requisitioned by the Compulsory Labor Service returning home from Germany arrived on Quai d’Orsay by the truckload. Feted by the Parisians and sometimes awaited by anxious loved ones, they were directed inside the station by public administration officials and an army of volunteers. There, they went through the mandatory procedures that would enable them to return to civilian life a few hours later: an identity check, a wash and a shave, a medical checkup and lunch. Provided with a carte de rapatrié (repatriated person’s card), they could return to their home base if they still had one. Original objects (“auteur” photographs, contact sheets, correspondence, magazines and repatriated person’s cards), reproductions of images (negatives, posters and newspaper articles), a color film extract, and even a radio recording of the millionth repatriate’s voice … This is the first time that so many works and documents relating to this episode at Gare d’Orsay have been brought together and analyzed. The exhibition conjures up unique stories, each of which contains the whole of history, along with a wide range of viewpoints on these events that converge and sometimes oppose each other. This project, labelled by the National Mission for the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation, was made possible thanks to loans from the following institutions: The Heritage"}
{"i":120,"title":"Notre-Dame de Paris","raw":"Undertaken in the 1840s, Notre-Dame de Paris’s restoration marked a turning point in the story of the great 19th-century movement focusing on the rehabilitation of cathedrals. A few years after the publication of Victor Hugo’s novel (1831), which enjoyed enormous popular success, the interest it aroused bore witness to the monument’s symbolic importance and its role in the nation. As a result, architects’ restorations contributed to construction of a national identity based on an often reinvented Middle Ages."}
{"i":121,"title":"Henri Rivière: The man behind the camera","raw":"Henri Rivière was a graphic artist, illustrator, painter, engraver, and poet who created the shadow theater at the Chat noir cabaret in 1886, as well as being a collector of Far-Eastern art and a photographer. Drawing on his experience with projection and enchanted by Japanese art, he created images where flat sheets of color, jagged silhouettes, chiaroscuro, and Japanese-inspired compositions sit side by side. His visual experiments center around images of his partner, captured in moments of intimacy, the Breton countryside, and Parisian market scenes, as well as the construction site for the Eiffel tower."}
{"i":122,"title":"Charles Cordier (1827-1905), Chinese Man and Chinese Woman, 1853","raw":"Early works by Charles Cordier (Cambrai, 1827 – Algiers, 1905), these two Chinese busts sculpted in 1853 were purchased by the Museum in late 2023. They are the artist’s first attempts at polychromy, making use here of galvanoplasty and enameling, techniques he would not employ again. Restored in early 2024, they are presented to the public for the first time. These two busts are portraits of a Chinese man and woman from Guangzhou (Canton), Chung Ataï and his second wife Yung Achoi, who arrived in Europe in 1851 for the Universal Exhibition in London. Their trip was organised by Ninian Crawford and William Lane, two English merchants. It was a commercial venture: audiences were able to buy objects in the midst of a show depicting daily life in China. Chung Ataï travelled with his first wife, Sen Ahup, his second wife, Yung Achoi, his sister-in-law Chung Ahoo and their servant. They were the guests of Queen Victoria at Osbourne House, her summer residence on the Isle of Wight."}
{"i":123,"title":"Drawing Cathedrals in the 19th Century","raw":"With Notre Dame’s restoration nearing completion, this exhibition of drawings focuses on artists’ enthusiasm for cathedrals in the 19th century. These artists charted their path in the wake of Victor Hugo and the architect Eugène Viollet-Le-Duc, whose restorations conjured up a new image of the Middle Ages. Through the prism of the picturesque and the sublime, among other things, they took a fresh look at the majesty of these edifices, places of history, religion and memory."}
{"i":124,"title":"Elmgreen & Dragset: L'Addition","raw":"The great troublemakers of the contemporary art scene, Elmgreen & Dragset, have been invited to place their poetic sculptures in dialogue with the Musée d’Orsay’s iconic scultpure nave. Their exhibitions always lie at the intersection of performance, space and sculpture. The presentation they have created specifically for Musée d’Orsay will have the visitor dive into a museum upside down. The artists have conceived a radical architectural intervention entitled “L’Addition”, which is unlike anything the museum has ever shown. While challenging modes for displaying artworks, the duo will present a series of new figurative sculptures. These works will depict various topics linked to contemporary masculinities in close dialogue with the museum’s historical permanent collection, highlighting the similarities and differences in artistic approaches to figuration."}
{"i":125,"title":"The Caillebotte bequest","raw":"On the occasion of the 130th anniversary of his death, the Musée d’Orsay is giving pride of place to Impressionist painter Gustave Caillebotte (1848-1894). While the exhibition dedicated to the artist, \"Caillebotte, Painting men\", mainly presents his artistic output, this exceptional exhibition also pays tribute to his work as a collector and donor. From a wealthy background, Caillebotte acquired more than seventy pieces by Cezanne, Degas, Manet, Millet, Monet, Pissarro, Renoir, and Sisley. He assembled a remarkable collection of modern art, a legacy for future generations, while providing financial support for his Impressionist friends. Indeed, in 1876, at only 28 years old, he wrote a will in which he bequeathed this collection to the French government. He stated that the paintings should all be exhibited at the Musée du Luxembourg in Paris (then called the \"musée des artistes vivants\"), then eventually moved to the Louvre. The government initially accepted this bequest, but difficulties arose with exhibiting the works at the Musée du Luxembourg, which was too small and overcrowded. After lengthy discussions between Martial Caillebotte, the artist's brother, Renoir, the executor of his will, and the museums' administrative departments, a compromise was found: the bequest would only comprise a selection of forty works, but all of them would be exhibited. They became part of the national collections in 1896. In February 1897, the Caillebotte room opened to the public. At that time, it was unprecedented to see such a large collection of Impressionist works in a museum. It was thanks to Caillebotte's generosity and determination that Impressionism finally gained official recognition in France."}
{"i":126,"title":"Caillebotte: Painting men","raw":"The exhibition on show at the Musée d'Orsay in autumn 2024 focuses on Gustave Caillebotte (1848-1894) and his predilection for masculine forms and portraits of men, and seeks to examine this artist's profoundly radical modernity through the lens of art history's changing perspective on 19th-century forms of masculinity. In a desire to produce a new, authentic form of art, Caillebotte took his subjects from his surroundings (Haussmann's Paris, the country houses around the capital), his male acquaintances (his brothers, the workers employed by his family, his boating friends), and ultimately from his own life. In response to the realist movement, he introduced new figures into his paintings: an urban worker, a man on a balcony, a sportsman, and even an intimate portrait of a male nude at his 'toilette'. In an era when virility and republican fraternity prevailed, but traditional masculinity was also in crisis for the first time, these new, powerful images challenged the established order, both social and sexual. Beyond his own identity - that of a young rich Parisian bachelor - Caillebotte also brought profound questions into the male condition at the heart of Impressionism and Modernism. This project was inspired by the recent acquisition of two of Caillebotte's major works, by the J.Paul Getty Museum (Young Man at His Window) and the Musée d’Orsay (A Boating Party), and centers around a masterpiece from this artist, Paris Street; Rainy Day, on loan from the Art Institute of Chicago. The exhibition, which presents around 70 pieces, includes Caillebotte's most important paintings of people, as well as pastels, sketches, photographs, and documents. This event is being organized in the year of the 130th anniversary of the artist's death (1894), which is also the date when his outstanding collection of Impressionist paintings was bequeathed to the French government. To mark the occasion, the entire bequest will be on show in a temporary exhibition in one of the museum's"}
{"i":127,"title":"Harriet Backer (1845-1932): The music of colors","raw":"Although little known outside Norway, within her country Harriet Backer was the most renowned female painter of the late 19th century. Highly acclaimed for her rich, luminous use of color, she created an eminently personal style that blends interior scenes and open-air painting. She drew inspiration from the realist movement as well as from the innovations of Impressionism, with free brushstrokes and meticulous attention to variations in light. She is also famous for her tender portraits of rural life and her interest in church interiors."}
{"i":128,"title":"Céline Laguarde (1873-1961): Photographer","raw":"In the early years of the 20th century, Céline Laguarde established herself as an international figure in the history of photography’s first artistic movement: pictorialism. Her body of work has finally emerged from a century of oblivion. This exhibition is an invitation to rediscover Laguarde on two levels: as a female photographer who earned a level of recognition that no woman in France had achieved since the invention of the medium, but also - and most importantly - as an artist who in her lifetime was already considered to be one of the most important photographers of her era. The exhibition has been made possible by the gradual unveiling of the artist's personal collection, which was pieced back together in the Musée d’Orsay collections between 2017 and 2024. His main ambition is to spotlight a body of work of unsuspected quality, variety and longevity. The portraits, studies of figures, and landscapes give an insight into the photographer's reputation as a master of pigment processes, still considered today to be among the most complex and sophisticated printing techniques. Through more than a hundred and thirty of the artist’s original prints, selectively compared with photographs by her male and female contemporaries, the exhibition also showcases the evolutions and continuities, influences and dialogues, and originality and specificities that characterize Laguarde’s work. The result of an exceptional research process, this exhibition and the accompanying publication - the first to be dedicated to the artist - are based on piecing together Céline Laguarde's work, biography, career, and critical success. This personal journey is also put into a threefold context: that of a particularly eclectic network of artistic, literary, musical, and scientific social connections; of the regional, national, and international fine art photography scene; and the still little-known world of French female photographers at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, examined her"}
{"i":129,"title":"Barbara Chase-Riboud · Everytime A Knot is Undone, A God is Released","raw":"Eight Paris museums celebrate the life and work of Barbara Chase-Riboud. Born in 1939, this living artist has been working for seven decades, traveling all over the world and developing an unparalleled mastery of form. The exhibition, spread across eight sites, includes a collection of monumental sculptures which demonstrate the power of bronze and silk, essential elements of the sculptor's work, weaving connections between cultures, stories, and substances. At the Musée d'Orsay, five of the artist's works will be exhibited in the clock room on the 5th floor. In the Musée d'Orsay's famous clock room, an emblem of modernity, five aluminum and silk sculptures will be on display. In juxtaposition with one of the large clocks on the museum's facade, they question the notion of time. Barbara Chase-Riboud opens up new possibilities in sculpture, combining bronze with silk and wool, creating pieces whose solidity and fluidity do not contradict one another, but rather create a new, mobile form, at once human and abstract. Named after a collection of Barbara Chase-Riboud's poetry, published in 2014, the exhibition \"Everytime A Knot is Undone, A God is Released\" is spread across eight sites. It gives visitors a host of opportunities to come into contact with the artist's work, through sculpture, drawing, and poems created from 1958 up to the present day."}
{"i":130,"title":"Barking Successes","raw":"Among the subjects explored by 19th-century artists, dogs deserve special attention, not for their aesthetic value but due to the many roles they play. In numerous works from the period in question dogs transcend their status as simple animals and become key characters in visual narration, reflecting the ongoing changes in society. Dogs in 19th-century artworks symbolize a wide range of emotions and themes, from loyalty and domesticity to lasciviousness and exoticism. The works selected illustrate and examine the unbreakable bonds between human beings, dogs and art."}
{"i":131,"title":"Auditorium Architecture","raw":"The 19th century witnessed a remarkable increase in the production of plays, operas, operettas and concerts, along with lectures, reviews and what would come to be known as “music hall”. As a result, more venues than ever before had to be built to host such events and so enable ever-more numerous audiences to enjoy the shows on offer. Architects’ inventiveness knew no bounds when it came to providing cities with ever larger and more beautiful auditoriums, drawing on a long history reaching back to Antiquity."}
{"i":132,"title":"Around the 1900 Olympic Games: sport and ideal","raw":"Before becoming a museum in 1986, Orsay train station was built to welcome the 50 million visitors who flocked to the 1900 World’s Fair and the Olympic Games that were being held alongside it, the first to be hosted in Paris. Like the OG, this multidisciplinary exhibition pays heritage to that legacy. The second half of the 19th century saw the emergence of a culture of sport, largely initiated in England and underpinned by moral objectives: “a healthy mind in a healthy body”. The modern Games, as they were conceived by their reviver Pierre de Coubertin, also contributed to the objective of national regeneration through competition, and a “physical renaissance” following France’s defeat in the War of 1870. The classical body and the Greek ideal are models to be found in the arts, including in the many depictions of Hercules, the Olympic Games’ mythical founder. A preserve of the elites and initially only concerning men, the culture of sport democratized at the turn of the century and women appropriated it. On either side of Maurice Denis’ monumental canvas Jeu de Volant (Battledore and Shuttlecock – 1900), works from our collections will be highlighting this newfound enthusiasm: it was in 1900 that a few women were first invited to take part in the Olympic Games."}
{"i":133,"title":"Paris 1874: Inventing impressionism","raw":"150 years ago, on April 15, 1874, the first impressionist exhibition opened in Paris. “Hungry for independence”, Monet, Renoir, Degas, Morisot, Pissarro, Sisley and Cézanne finally decided to free themselves from the rules by holding their own exhibition, outside official channels: impressionism was born. To celebrate this anniversary, Musée d’Orsay is presenting some 130 works and bringing a fresh eye to bear on this key date, regarded as the day that launched the avant-gardes. What exactly happened in Paris in that spring of 1874, and what sense should we make today of an exhibition that has become legendary? “Paris 1874. The Impressionist Moment” seeks to trace the advent of an artistic movement that emerged in a rapidly changing world. “Paris 1874” reviews the circumstances that led these 31 artists (only seven of whom are well-known across the world today) to join forces and exhibit their works together. The period in question had a post-war climate, following two conflicts: the Franco-German War of 1870, and then a violent civil war. In this context of crisis, artists began to rethink their art and explore new directions. A little “clan of rebels” painted scenes of modern life, and landscapes sketched in the open air, in pale hues and with the lightest of touches. As one observer noted, “What they seem above all to be aiming at is an impression”. In “Paris 1874”, a selection of works that featured in the 1874 impressionist exhibition is put into perspective with paintings and sculptures displayed at the official Salon the same year. This unprecedented confrontation will help recreate the visual shock caused by the works exhibited by the impressionists, as well as nuance it by unexpected parallels and overlaps between the first impressionist exhibition and the Salon."}
{"i":134,"title":"Hector Guimard and the Genesis of the Metro","raw":"Like its Haussman-style façades and the Eiffel Tower, the metro entrances designed by Hector Guimard (1867-1942) are part and parcel of Paris’ image, not just in France itself but well beyond its borders. Musée d'Orsay presents the drawings preparatory to creation of these entrances with their altogether unique aesthetic. After an inconclusive competition held in 1899, the Compagnie Générale du Métropolitain requested Hector Guimard to design the entrances to its future stations. The architect came up with some truly original, almost organic designs. The drawings presented in this exhibition bear remarkable witness to the creation of works that have become emblematic of the capital. Some of them will be exhibited for the first time, following a restoration campaign carried out in 2022-2023."}
{"i":135,"title":"1874 Draw!","raw":"In parallel with the exhibition \"Paris 1874, Inventing impressionism\", and on the occasion of the Salon du dessin, the Musée d'Orsay is presenting an anthology of its most beautiful graphic artworks from 1874. In sanguine, charcoal, pastels, or watercolor, on colored paper or drafting film, on cardboard or the page of a notebook, this collection of works shows the new heights the art of drawing had reached in 1874. Preparatory drawings for State commissions to decorate Parisian monuments, sketches for large compositions and easel paintings on display at the Salon, and landscapes from the 'plein air' school jotted down directly from the motif are all testament to the rich variety of artistic creation in 1874. This exhibition reveals graphic masterpieces from Baudry, Puvis de Chavannes, Degas, Manet, and Pissarro, with some more unusual pieces, such as Boudin's charcoal sketches, taking us by surprise, and highlights certain gifted draftsmen who are little known today. While these artists appropriated the drawing techniques and traditions of the old masters, they kept them alive solely in order to reinvent them with novel subjects and innovative materials."}
{"i":136,"title":"Tarot! Renaissance Symbols, Modern Visions","raw":"Conceived in two parts, this exhibition explores the origins of tarot in Renaissance Italy and its contemporary relevance as an enduring source of inspiration for twentieth- and twenty-first-century artists. Originally created as a courtly game of skill, tarot was not associated with occult secrets, divination, or the power of fate until centuries later. By the twentieth century, the cards came to serve as a source of inspiration for artists, offering an alternative to the strictures of modernist aesthetics and allowing them to explore other universes and imaginative possibilities. The first part, Renaissance Symbols, focuses on the earliest surviving tarot decks from the fifteenth century, examining the rich court culture from which the cards emerged, the development of the cards’ imagery, and how that imagery became the basis for later divination practices. The impetus for this exhibition was the Morgan’s Visconti-Sforza Tarot cards, the most famous deck to survive from the Renaissance. Tarot! reunites all the figural cards in the Morgan’s collection with those in the collection of Accademia Carrara, Bergamo, Italy, marking the first time the majority of the cards from this important deck will be displayed together in North America. The second part, Modern Visions, traces artists’ engagement with tarot imagery during four distinct historical moments in which the occult assumed greater prominence within the larger culture. This section takes as its starting point the legendary 1909 Rider-Waite-Smith deck conceived by mystic Arthur Edward Waite and illustrated by artist Pamela Colman Smith, tracing the influence of this deck and others on later practitioners and the imagery’s adoption by artists like André Breton, Leonora Carrington, Remedios Varo, Jess, Niki de Saint Phalle, Betye Saar, Kerstin Brätsch, and Chris Ofili. Also included in the exhibition is a video reel that explores Tarot’s sustained presence in cinema and popular culture across several decades of fi"}
{"i":137,"title":"Hujar:Contact","raw":"Hujar:Contact offers an unprecedented look into the life, times, and creative evolution of a master photographer. The exhibition features more than 110 contact sheets and 20 enlargements from the Morgan’s Peter Hujar Collection, which includes over 5,700 contact sheets from throughout the artist’s career. Peter Hujar (1934–1987) began filing contact sheets and assigning them job numbers at age twenty-one. His records make it possible to track his development—from two decades as a studio assistant (1955–67), when he pushed himself to try work of every kind, into the late 1960s and his work as a freelancer in fashion, music, and advertising, through his mature period (1974–87) as a fiercely independent and influential artist in the East Village. Many of the contact sheets bear editing marks that indicate ideas about cropping and printing and contextualize the exposures Hujar ultimately decided to enlarge. The intense, interactive quality of his portrait work comes to life in contact sheets that read as intimate pictorial narratives, revealing the nature of his attention and the unique personality of each of his subjects. As Hujar matures and struggles, and as the character of his social world changes from the 1950s through the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, his contact sheets tell the nuanced story of a lifetime, a community, and an era."}
{"i":138,"title":"Friends Who Came to See Me: Drawings from John Ashbery’s Collection","raw":"In 2019, the Morgan received a donation of some twenty- five works on paper from the collection of American poet John Ashbery (1927–2017) from his husband, David Kermani. These works form the core of this exhibition devoted to Ashbery and his artist friends. Ashbery, who worked as an art critic for three decades and often found inspiration for his poetry in the visual arts, developed numerous friendships with artists, including James Bishop, Joe Brainard, Jane Freilicher, Jean Hélion, Fairfield Porter, and Larry Rivers. With the exception of two sheets by Constantin Guys from the mid-nineteenth century, the drawings range chronologically from 1945 to 2007, with a concentration of works from the 1960s. Many were gifts to the poet from the artists. The selection includes eight portraits of Ashbery. It also features one of the very first collages that Ashbery created, while a student at Harvard in the late 1940s, signaling his early interest in Surrealism. The display of drawings will be complemented by textual material from the Morgan’s collection, notably books showing Ashbery’s collaboration with artists."}
{"i":139,"title":"Rembrandt’s Lions: Art and Exile in the Dutch Republic","raw":"Although Rembrandt van Rijn (1606–1669) and his work are now seen as quintessentially Dutch, in his own time, the very definition of ‘Dutch’ identity was still being shaped. This exhibition brings together, for the first time, a remarkable group of drawings, etchings, and paintings to highlight the often overlooked but formative presence of migrants, immigrants, exiles, and refugees in Rembrandt’s world and work. It also foregrounds stories of diaspora that figure prominently in many of his etchings, newly envisioning the impact of migration on seventeenth-century life around the world. In the seventeenth century, up to sixty percent of residents in Amsterdam—where Rembrandt lived and worked—hailed from elsewhere in the world, in part because the Dutch Republic had become a bastion in Continental Europe for religious and political tolerance, though not all people enjoyed equal freedoms, especially in Dutch colonial territories. The lion, a symbol for the fledgling Republic’s people and lands, also appears in Rembrandt’s etchings, often in the context of stories about exile, refuge, and migration. The aim of the artist is thus the aim of this exhibition: to reveal the many ‘lions’ that irrevocably shaped him and the vast, emerging Republic in which they all lived and worked. The best impressions from the Morgan’s collection of celebrated, but rarely exhibited, etchings by Rembrandt will be presented alongside selected loans to create juxtapositions and unities between artworks that are seldom seen together."}
{"i":140,"title":"Fantasy and Reality: The Art of Johan Tobias Sergel","raw":"Though little known beyond his native Sweden, sculptor and draftsman Johan Tobias Sergel (1740–1814) was one of the most compelling artistic figures of the late eighteenth century. This exhibition—the first dedicated to Sergel outside Europe—will feature a selection of his drawings alongside sculptural works in terracotta, marble, and plaster. Trained initially in Stockholm, Sergel spent time in Paris and, more importantly, over a decade in Rome, where his associates included a dazzling international circle of artists and patrons. Sergel’s sculpture was an important model for a generation of Neoclassical artists, but the artist’s personality is most evident in the drawings that constitute a virtual diary of his life, often in caricature. An extensive corpus of self-portraits will be joined by scores of surviving sheets that explore his artistic friendships, his relationship with King Gustav III and other figures at the court in Stockholm, and his common-law marriage to Anna Rella Hellström. His late drawings, made when Sergel was in poor health and in a state of depression, have been compared to those of Francisco Goya. Although his career spanned artistic movements from Rococo to Neoclassicism to Romanticism, Sergel also seems at times a modern figure, one whose life can offer a rich story to contemporary audiences."}
{"i":141,"title":"Graphic Devotions: Late Medieval European Blockbooks","raw":"This exhibition will highlight the short period in European book history (1450–80) when blockbooks competed with hand-written and typographically-printed books as commercial products for readers. Blockbooks, now often referred to as “medieval graphic novels,” were highly illustrated books printed entirely from woodcuts (text and image together). As such, they were the first print-on-demand books in the West. While some works maintained texts and imagery popular from manuscript tradition, block cutters and printers also produced new and innovative texts specifically designed for the medium. Ultimately, the cumbersome production process of woodcut-book printing was surpassed by the greater capabilities of typographic printing that integrated woodcuts, and the blockbook genre had largely died out by 1480. This thirty-year span, however, reveals a critical moment in European book history as the increasing demand for books led to inventions and experimentation in book production. The Morgan holds the largest collection of blockbooks in the United States. A highlight of this exhibition will be the Ars moriendi blockbook, a rare copy printed in the Netherlands about 1467–69. In 2022, the Morgan acquired fifteen leaves of this blockbook that had been held in a private collection. Remarkably, the Morgan already possessed the remaining nine leaves—purchased by J. Pierpont Morgan in 1902. This acquisition reunites the two parts, forming the only known complete copy of this monument to early European printing."}
{"i":142,"title":"Ragtime: Cakewalk in Pianoland","raw":"This exhibition introduces a new generation of visitors to ragtime—one of the first truly global popular music styles. Tracing the genre’s evolution from its roots in West African rhythms and European musical traditions to its pivotal role in the emergence of jazz, the exhibition explores ragtime’s vibrant cultural legacy. Through seven thematic sections, it examines the music’s historical foundations, its rise to mainstream popularity, and its crossover into Broadway, film, and popular culture, offering a rich and comprehensive portrait of ragtime’s enduring dynamism and influence. Featuring selections from The John Davis Collection of Early Printed Musical African Americana as the foundation of the exhibition, it will also include works from the Morgan's holdings as well as from a number of private collections. Visitors will encounter the fascinating juxtaposition between two of the genre’s greatest figures, Ernest Hogan (1865–1909), a pioneering Black songwriter who broke boundaries by creating a sound that resonated with the Black working classes, and Scott Joplin (1868–1917), a master of composition who elevated ragtime to a sophisticated art form. Their combined compositional range allowed for both the expression of the Black community’s experiences and aspirations through catchy melodies and relatable narratives, and the opportunity to challenge performative racial stereotypes by offering dignified and accomplished representations of Black Americans."}
{"i":143,"title":"William Blake: Paradise Lost","raw":"To mark the two hundredth anniversary of the death of visionary artist and poet William Blake (1757–1827), this exhibition will be the first in-depth exploration of Blake’s profound and persistent engagement with England’s canonic poet, John Milton (1608–1674). Milton, who predates Blake by more than a century, was a statesman, polemicist, and author of the biblical epic Paradise Lost. Yet the legacy of his writings and ideas coursed through Blake’s imagination from youth to old age, taking form in visions, poetry, and the astonishing body of watercolor drawings he produced in the second half of his career. This exhibition will reunite Blake’s most significant works inspired by Milton, alongside selections by his contemporaries, including Henri Fuseli and John Flaxman. For the first time in more than a quarter century, visitors will gain unprecedented access to Blake’s rarely seen Miltonic watercolors, illuminated books, and paintings, drawn from renowned American and British collections and the Morgan’s own formidable holdings by Blake and Milton. After 1800, Milton’s poetry rivaled the Bible as Blake’s dominant literary inspiration. Blake’s relationship to the poet and thinker, however, was complex. He confronted and wrestled with Milton’s writings and beliefs. This struggle helped to solidify Blake’s own ideas, yielding his most personal and provocative achievements as a mature artist. Blake’s efforts culminated in his own ambitious epic Milton, a Poem (1804-1811) and the extraordinary sets of watercolor drawings illustrating Milton’s major works: the early lyric poem “On the Morning of Christ’s Nativity” (1629); the companion poems L’Allegro and Il Penseroso (c. 1631); the masque Comus (1634); and the epics Paradise Lost (1667) and Paradise Regained (1671)."}
{"i":144,"title":"The Declaration of Independence: Rare Americana from the Collection","raw":"In honor of the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, the Morgan Library & Museum presents a select group of important materials relating to the history of the founding of the nation in the rotunda of the historic library. Placed in conversation with each other, this installation of six works provides a snapshot of an incredibly robust area of the Morgan’s collection that speaks to the vitality of the country in its nascence."}
{"i":145,"title":"Sendak, Mozart, and The Magic Flute","raw":"The beloved and acclaimed children’s book author Maurice Sendak (1928–2012) was also an avid opera lover who designed sets and costumes for several productions. In 1978 he was invited by Frank Corsaro to create designs for the Houston Grand Opera’s staging of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s The Magic Flute (1791), which opened two years later."}
{"i":146,"title":"Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart: Treasures from the Mozarteum Foundation of Salzburg","raw":"In an unprecedented collaboration, the Mozarteum Foundation of Salzburg and the Morgan Library & Museum have partnered to tell the story of the life and career of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart."}
{"i":147,"title":"Come Together: 3,000 Years of Stories and Storytelling","raw":"Combining diverse artworks from across the Morgan’s collections and some exceptional loans, Come Together: 3,000 Years of Stories and Storytelling explores how stories shape our world."}
{"i":148,"title":"Caravaggio's \"Boy with a Basket of Fruit\" in Focus","raw":"This exhibition celebrates the extraordinary loan from the Galleria Borghese in Rome of the painting Boy with a Basket of Fruit, an important early work by Michelangelo Merisi, known as Caravaggio (1571–1610)."}
{"i":149,"title":"Giovanni Bellini's \"Pietà\" Restored and Pietro Perugino’s “Man of Sorrows”","raw":"Giovanni Bellini (1424/26–1516), Pietà (also known as Dead Christ Supported by Angels) (ca. 1470). Photography by Matteo De Fina, courtesy of Museo della Città “Luigi Tonini,” Rimini."}